The 1982 Central Michigan Chippewas football team represented Central Michigan University in the Mid-American Conference (MAC) during the 1982 NCAA Division I-A football season. In their fifth season under head coach Herb Deromedi, the Chippewas compiled a 6–4–1 record (5–3–1 against MAC opponents), finished in a three-way tie for second place in the MAC standings, and outscored their opponents, 228 to 199.[1][2] The team played its home games in Perry Shorts Stadium in Mount Pleasant, Michigan,[3] with attendance of 139,653 in six home games.[4]

The team's statistical leaders included quarterback Bob DeMarco with 1,113 passing yards, tailback Curtis Adams with 1,090 rushing yards, and Jaime Jackson with 412 receiving yards.[5] Linebacker Ray Bentley received the team's most valuable player award.[6] Three Central Michigan players (Adams, Bentley, and offensive guard Chris McKay) received first-team All-MAC honors.[7]

This college football 1982 season article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.
This article about a sports team in Michigan is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Frances Atkins is a British chef. She won a Michelin star at the Yorke Arms in 2003.

Frances Venning was born in Maidstone, Kent, but grew up in Ilkley, West Yorkshire.[1][2] Her father had served in the Royal Engineers during the Second World War. He was involved in the creation of the portable Mulberry harbours used during the D-Day landings.[3] Frances trained in hotel management at Bradford College, and went on to work at The Box Tree restaurant in Ilkley.[4] She moved to Scotland to work at Dalhousie Castle,[1] and then Denmark to work in different kitchens. When she was 23, she met and married her first husband, George Carman QC.[4]

For the following 10 years, Frances did not work as her husband felt that women should not. She later called the marriage "a disaster",[4] and after they divorced in 1984,[1] she started to work as a cook in a pub and then began a catering company.[2] This proved successful and she opened a cafe, and met her second husband, Bill Atkins. Together, they closed the cafe and opened Atkins Restaurant.[4] During this period, she would close the restaurant on Sundays and go to visit Raymond Blanc at Le Manoir aux Quat’ Saisons, who she later called a "huge mentor".[1]

Atkins then left to run the Old Plow in Speen, Buckinghamshire, and then opened the Farleyer House in Scotland. It was there that she was awarded a Bib Gourmand award in the Michelin Guide. Sir Neil Shaw, the chairman of Tate & Lyle then asked her to open a restaurant with his backing. Shaw's Restaurant opened under Atkins in 1993, but after three years she wanted to move back to Yorkshire.[2] In 1997, they purchased the Yorke Arms in Ramsgill.[5] The pub was already known for good food, and Atkins initially wanted to keep the menu simple. However, she worked on the menu and was awarded a Michelin star in 2003.[4]

She appeared on BBC Two television series Great British Menu in 2014, where her dishes paid tribute to her father.[3] While Atkins worked as head chef, her husband ran the business side of the restaurant. The couple decided to put the restaurant up for sale in 2017 for £1.75 million, as Bill was looking to retire.[4][6]

Yorke Arms lost its Michelin star in October 2019 but then earned its third rosette from AA plc in February 2020. Yorke Arms has been closed as a restaurant since July 2020 amid COVID-19 pandemic and planned to be reopened as a private country house for hire.[7] Atkins launched a catering project Paradise Food with her two former Yorke Arms colleagues[8] of over 20 years, chef Roger Olive and manager John Tullett.[5]
The Circle of Justice is the relationship between the state and the people in the pre-modern states of the Ottoman Empire. Although it had been written about as early as the eleventh century AD, the term Circle of Justice was first coined by the sixteenth-century Ottoman writer Kinalizade and has often been used when describing state-societal relationships in the pre-modern era of the Ottoman Empire.[1] Although nineteenth century Tanzimat reforms led to dramatic shifts in these relations, the Circle of Justice is considered to be the baseline for understanding the Ottoman Empire during its Ancien Régime period.

The first full expression of this concept originates in the tenth century AD, and reads as follows:

"The world is a garden, hedged in by sovereignty

Sovereignty is lordship, preserved by law

Law is administration, governed by the king

The king is a shepherd, supported by the army

The army are soldiers, fed by money

Money is revenue, gathered by the people

The people are servants, subjected by justice


Justice is happiness, the well-being of the world."[2]
The Circle of Justice articulated what were considered to be the four essential elements of a successful, just Middle Eastern state: the King's authority, the army, the wealth of the state, and the peasantry.[2] The success of each element of the circle was dependent upon the success of the others. Also implicit in these elements is the state's reliance upon shari'a law as the basis for society and justice.

The ultimate authority and sovereignty of the sultan was an essential element of the Circle of Justice, for the sultan was considered to be ruling with divine blessing or even divine appointment.[2] This religious backing meant that the sultan's ultimate authority and power were considered to be an essential element, underscoring the essentiality of religious law in the pre-modern period of the Ottoman Empire.

In order to protect the sultan and the sovereignty of the territory over which he presided, a strong military force was essential. The strength of the army relied upon its ability to conquer lands or obtain new wealth for the kingdom.

Funding was essential in order to maintain the strength of the army, for funding was needed not only for the systems that were used to obtain new recruits, such as the devşirme system, but also for the systems that were implemented in order to successfully train these new recruits.

The wealth of the pre-modern Ottoman state was largely dependent upon two factors: taxation and agricultural revenue. Large agricultural success, of course, was dependent upon a large peasant base to cultivate Ottoman lands.

The essential role played by the peasantry in the Circle of Justice can perhaps be considered the basis upon which all other elements of the Circle linked back to one another. In order to ensure agricultural productivity, the army had to protect peasants from invasion, banditry and civil strife; the infrastructure of irrigation works, roads and markets had to be maintained; and the provision of justice had to be ensured, including the reduction or remission of tax demands upon peasantry during times of disaster and the curtailing of the exploitation of corrupt landowners and government officials. Additionally, the sultan was often seen as an ally of the peasantry, for it was considered his duty to protect the peasantry from both corrupt elites and outside forces.[2]

In terms of practical functioning of a state, the Circle of Justice poses problems because of its enormous fragility. Each element of the Circle is dependent upon the success of the other, meaning that the absence or malfunctioning of even one element can cause the collapse of the entire state. For example, if justice were not provided to the peasantry, agricultural and economic productivity would decrease, leading to, firstly, a decrease in revenue; secondly, the state's inability to pay the army and the army's eventual rebellion; and, ultimately, the inability of the sultan to effectively exercise his ultimate power and sovereignty.[2]

Thus, the Circle of Justice necessitated some sort of an interactive relationship between the sultan and his subjects, in order to maintain the essential "balance" and "equilibrium" of Ottoman states. This interactive relationship is evident through the existence of institutions such as state-supported irrigation systems that helped to ensure fertility and prosperity; laws and revenue surveys that allowed for the just distribution of taxes; and courts of petitioning that allowed for the addressing of complaints made by the peasantry.[2]

The use of the Circle of Justice as the basis for the political functioning of the state inherently led to the establishment of four distinct, separate classes that characterized the social sphere of the pre-modern Ottoman Empire. These four classes included the Men of the Pen, or the men involved in legislature who helped to underscore the King's authority; the Men of the Sword, or the military classes; the Men of Transactions, or bureaucrats such as tax collectors and accountants who aided in the collection and distribution of the state's wealth; and the Men of Agriculture, or the peasantry. Any imbalances caused among these classes was indicative of larger imbalances within the Circle of Justice, and thus could be considered precursors to injustice and tyranny.

The use of the concept of the Circle of Justice as a method of describing the inner workings of the entire Ottoman Empire can also be helpful in attempting to understand the inner workings of the Ottoman Empire at a more local level. The governors of local provinces were appointed by the state and played a similar role to the sultan as the supposed overseers of all individuals living under their command; local armies in each region were under the command of the governor and were supposed to protect the peasantry; tax collectors were intended to collect revenue; and the peasantry was expected to cultivate the local lands in order to produce agricultural revenue. Highlighting the role of religion as the essential basis for this entire system was the role of the local mufti, who was authorized by the state to make decisions on legal cases based upon his understanding of Islamic law.




The public image of Mitt Romney refers to how he has been perceived by the American public, media, and political commentators. Following his 2008 presidential campaign, Romney received increased national attention, and aspects of his personal background, political positions, and religious affiliation with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) became notable components of public discussion about his candidacy and leadership style.[1]

Throughout his political career, Romney has often been described as applying analytical and business-oriented methods to political decision-making, influenced by his experience at Bain & Company and Bain Capital.[2][3][4] Romney has stated that his time at Bain shaped his approach to solving complex problems through structured analysis and data-driven decision-making.[4] He has also emphasized the importance of quantitative analysis in policy development, writing that numerical data can provide guidance in addressing government budgeting and policy issues.[1]

Observers have frequently characterized Romney as a policy-focused and detail-oriented candidate. Former Bain colleague Fraser Bullock described Romney as someone who relied heavily on research and data when making decisions.[5] As a result, Romney has sometimes been described in media coverage as an economic policy specialist. 

Romney's public presentation style has also drawn attention. During his 2002 Massachusetts gubernatorial campaign, he occasionally used PowerPoint presentations in campaign events rather than traditional speeches.[6] He has also been noted for incorporating statistics and technical explanations into debates and policy discussions.[7] Upon taking office as governor of Massachusetts, The Boston Globe referred to him as the state's first "self-styled CEO governor".[8] During the 2008 presidential campaign, commentators described Romney as emphasizing analytical reasoning and managerial experience, with some characterizing him as a potential "CEO president".[9]

Media coverage has also commented on Romney's demeanor. In 2011, The New York Times described his public persona as cautious, formal, and reserved.[10][11] In a 2012 interview, Romney acknowledged that candidates for public office often limit emotional expression, suggesting that he may have followed that pattern.[12]

Romney's speaking style has also been discussed in media coverage. His use of formal or less commonly used expressions, such as "guffaw," "brickbats," and "smitten," along with mild exclamations including "gosh," "golly," and "heck," has been noted by commentators.[13] Some associates referred to these expressions as "Mittisms," while others described his language as formal or traditional.[13] His religious background, which discourages swearing, has also been cited as influencing his vocabulary and communication style.[13]


Romney's appearance and personal image have also received attention in popular media. In 2002, People magazine included Romney in its "50 Most Beautiful People" list.[14]
Some critics held Romney to be an out-of-touch multi-millionaire who cannot relate to middle-class America.[14][15] For example, during the 2012 presidential election campaign, when Romney proposed a $10,000 wager with one of his opponents in a televised Republican primary debate, political rivals and others were quick to call the bet an example of what they argued was Romney's lack of understanding of the concerns of average Americans, who would never treat such a large sum of money so casually.[16][17][18] Often in response to gaffes Romney had made on the campaign trail,[19][20] political satirists based jokes on an image of Romney as a wealthy, pampered elitist.[21][22][23] As comedian John Oliver on The Daily Show put it, "Everything about Romney tells the tale of a man who just fired your dad."[24]

For much of his business career, Romney did not take public political stances.[25][26] His early philosophical influences were often non-political, as during his missionary days when he read Napoleon Hill's self-help tome Think and Grow Rich, and encouraged his colleagues to do the same.[27][28] Until 1993, he was registered as an Independent[29] who in the 1992 Democratic Party presidential primaries had voted for the Democratic former senator from Massachusetts, Paul Tsongas.[8][25]

In the 1994 Senate race, Romney aligned himself with Republican Massachusetts Governor William Weld, saying "I think Bill Weld's fiscal conservatism, his focus on creating jobs and employment and his efforts to fight discrimination and assure civil rights for all is a model that I identify with and aspire to."[30]

As a gubernatorial candidate in 2002, and then initially as Governor of Massachusetts, he generally operated in the mold established by Weld and followed by Weld's two other Republican successors, Paul Cellucci and Jane Swift: restrain spending and taxing, be tolerant or permissive on social issues, protect the environment, be tough on crime, try to appear post-partisan.[8][31]

Late in his term as governor, he shifted positions and emphases to better align with traditional conservatives on social issues.[32][33][34] This increased alignment with traditional conservatives on social issues coincided with Romney's becoming a candidate for the 2008 Republican nomination for president.[35] He said that learning from experience and changing views accordingly is a virtue, and that, "If you're looking for someone who's never changed any positions on any policies, then I'm not your guy."[36] Romney responded to criticisms of ideological pandering with the explanation that "The older I get, the smarter Ronald Reagan gets."[34]

Journalist Daniel Gross sees Romney as approaching politics in the same terms as a business competing in markets, in that successful executives do not hold firm to public stances over long periods of time, but rather constantly devise new strategies and plans to deal with new geographical regions and ever-changing market conditions.[8] Political profiler Ryan Lizza notes the same question regarding whether Romney's business skills can be adapted to politics, saying that "while giving customers exactly what they want may be normal in the corporate world, it can be costly in politics".[27] Writer Robert Draper holds a somewhat similar perspective: "The Romney curse was this: His strength lay in his adaptability. In governance, this was a virtue; in a political race, it was an invitation to be called a phony."[2] Writer Benjamin Wallace-Wells sees Romney as a detached problem solver rather than one who approaches political issues from a humanistic or philosophical perspective.[37] Journalist Neil Swidey views Romney as a political and cultural enigma, "the product of two of the most mysterious and least understood subcultures in the country: the Mormon Church and private-equity finance," and believes that has led to the continued interest in the "dog on the roof" story.[38] Political writer Joe Klein views Romney as actually more conservative on social issues than he portrayed himself during his Massachusetts campaigns and less conservative on other issues than his presidential campaigns have represented, and concludes that Romney "has always campaigned as something he probably is not."[39]

Romney's religious background has been extensively covered by the mainstream media, especially in connection with his 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns.[40][41] Romney is a member of the LDS Church, members of which are commonly known as Mormons or Latter-day Saints.

In addition to missionary work in France in the 1960s, under the tutelage of Wesley L. Pipes, Romney has served as a bishop and a stake president in his church.[40] In accordance with LDS practice,[42] bishops and stake presidents are lay positions in the LDS Church, so Romney was not compensated for his years of service in those positions. Also in accordance to his religious beliefs, Romney abstains from alcohol and smoking.[43][44][45]

Romney's great-great-grandfather, Parley P. Pratt, was among the first leaders of the Latter Day Saint movement in the early 19th century. Marion G. Romney, his first cousin, once removed, was one of the church's twelve apostles. Romney's paternal great-grandparents practiced plural marriage, and went to Mexico in 1884 after the 1878 U.S. Supreme Court decision in Reynolds v. United States that upheld laws banning polygamy.[46][47] Subsequent generations of Romney's paternal lineage have been monogamous, and none of his mother's Mormon ancestors were polygamists.[48][49] Romney's father, George W. Romney, was a patriarch in the LDS Church. Romney's wife, Ann, converted to Mormonism before they were married in 1969.[citation needed]

Romney has expressed his faith in Jesus Christ as his "Lord and Savior" openly to evangelical Christian groups.[50] He has received support from evangelical Christians.[51][52]

Romney delivered his "Faith in America" speech on December 6, 2007, at the George H. W. Bush Presidential Library, with an introduction by George H. W. Bush. The speech, which was widely regarded as evoking that of Senator John F. Kennedy's September 1960 pledge not to allow Catholic doctrine to inform policy, discussed the role of religion in American society and politics.

While the speech was perceived as a response to Huckabee's mercurial rise in the polls in late November within first caucusing Iowa, soon to cast ballots on January 3 (in which likely caucus-goers were deemed to be over 40-percent evangelical), with commentators opining that Romney hoped it would effectively answer the media's longtime preoccupation with the hurdle manifested by Romney's faith, Romney's campaign billed the speech as extolling American freedom of worship while helping to satisfy public curiosity about how Romney's strain of religious devotion would inform presidential governance. After the speech was delivered, Romney's advisors told reporters, off the record, that Romney had said that through this speech he wanted to address his "comma problem": the common practice to put next to his name in media reports, "(comma) who is a Mormon (comma)."

Romney's speech gave primacy to the American Constitutional right of religious liberty, which produces cultural diversity and vibrancy of dialog. He called for public acknowledgement of God such as within Holidays religious displays. Romney said, "Freedom requires religion just as religion requires freedom.".[53] He cited a religious nature to historic abolitionists' campaigns, the campaign for American Civil Rights, and the contemporary campaign for the Right to Life. Romney advocated the maintenance of a separation of Church and State, stating that he, as president, would decline directives from churches' hierarchies, including that of the LDS Church.

Romney said while there are those who would prefer he indicated he holds his LDS faith merely as a tradition, actually he believes in his faith and tries to live according to its teachings, and while sacraments and confession of Romney's "church's beliefs about Christ may not all be the same as those of other faiths," he still holds Christ "the Son of God and Savior of mankind." Romney declined to address further the specifics of his Mormonism, implying that any compulsion to do so would counter the Constitutional prohibition of a religious test for political office. Romney wrote the speech himself.[54]

In the speech, Romney said, "I saw my father march with Martin Luther King." Some weeks later, the Romney campaign, when asked for the specifics, indicated this to have been an NAACP-sponsored procession in Grosse Pointe, Michigan, led by George W. Romney. However, there are conflicting accounts as to whether King was present at this march.[55][56]

In an interview with Newsweek, Romney said, "I don't think I defined religious liberty ... it includes all, all forms of personal conviction. ... The people who don't have a particular faith have a personal conviction. I said all forms of personal conviction. And personal conviction includes a sense of right and wrong and any host of beliefs someone might have. Obviously in this nation, our religious liberty includes the ability to believe or not believe."[57][58]

Contrasting media coverage, Mormonism was not an issue in his father's presidential campaign in 1968. Possible reasons include: he dropped out before it could become one, the candidacy of John F. Kennedy (a Catholic) had neutralized the religion issue, and religion generally was not a major stump issue.[59][60]
During the Boca Raton debate of January 24, 2008, NBC Nightly News  anchor Brian Williams asked Romney: "Governor, we've got [a poll ...] in the morning that says ... 44 percent of respondents say a Mormon president would have a difficult time uniting the country. ... "
... to which Romney replied:

You know, I just don't believe that people in this country are going to choose their, their, candidate based on which church he or she goes to. I just don't believe that.

And you know, polls ask people a lot of questions, and my faith isn't terribly well-known around this country, but I don't think for a minute the American people are going to say, 'You know what, we're not going to vote for this guy for a secular position because of his church.' I just don't believe it.

I think when the Constitution and the founders said no religious test shall ever be required for qualification for office or public trust in these United States that the founders meant just that. And I don't believe for a minute that Republicans, or Americans for that matter, are going to impose a religious test when the founders said it's as un-American as anything you can think of.

And so I believe that I'll ultimately get the nomination. I can't be sure of that, but I'm, I'm, pretty confident. And I believe in a head-to-head with Hillary Clinton the differences in our perspectives on how to get America going again and how to get us on the right track are as different as night and day. She takes her inspiration from the Europe of old, Big Brother, big government and big taxes. I take mine from Republican ideals: small government, small taxes, individual freedom. I believe that free American people are the source of America's greatness.


And so I don't think you're going to see religion figuring into this race after people have had a chance to get to know all the candidates.[61]
Romney's "Faith in America" speech, delivered in December 2007, addressed the matter.[62] In it, Romney said he should neither be elected nor rejected based upon his religion,[63] and echoed Senator John F. Kennedy's famous speech during his 1960 presidential campaign in saying "I will put no doctrine of any church above the plain duties of the office and the sovereign authority of the law."[62] Instead of discussing the specific tenets of his faith, he said that he would be informed by it and that, "Freedom requires religion just as religion requires freedom. Freedom and religion endure together, or perish alone."[62][63]

One academic study, based upon research conducted throughout the 2008 primaries, showed a widespread lack of knowledge among voters about Mormonism that tended to be resistant to factual information that would correct mistaken notions about the religion.[64] The authors reasoned that for Romney religion has become an item of interest for voters.[64] Another study, analyzing a survey conducted during January 2008 found that voters had selectively internalized the notion of religious equality, and in particular not extended it to Mormons, thus making Romney's run more difficult.[65] Those authors concluded that, "for a Mormon candidate, the road to the presidency remains very rough ... The bias against a Mormon candidate is substantial."[65]

The June 13, 2011, issue of Newsweek magazine featured a Romney-themed cover based on the popular Book of Mormon Broadway musical, and dubbed the summer of 2011 "The Mormon Moment".[66][67][68]

Romney's foreign policy views are rooted in the belief in American exceptionalism and the need to preserve American supremacy in the world.[69] This parallels the Mormon belief that the United States Constitution is divinely inspired and that the U.S. was selected by God to play a special part in human history.[70] Indeed, Romney's political beliefs regarding a limited role for government, a need for self-reliance, and requirements for welfare recipients, often reflect Mormon tenets adapted for the secular world.[70][71]

I found that finally addressing it in a speech and drawing people's attention to the fact that the nature of our country is one of religious pluralism was in my view a very effective way of bringing attention to this issue and settling it for the great majority of Americans. I think for most Americans they're not terribly concerned about someone's religious beliefs, unless of course it relates to their love of the country or something like that. I think we dealt with that in our [2008] campaign in a relatively effective way for most people.[72]

In polls of Republican voters taken during the 2008 presidential primaries a quarter of Republican voters expressed that they would be "less likely" to vote for a presidential candidate who is Mormon.[59][73] Among other criticisms, some evangelical voters view the LDS Church as a cult.[74] However, some social conservatives and evangelicals criticize Romney for not being Mormon enough, regarding social policy.[75][76] He has avoided speaking publicly about specific church doctrines, and has pointed out that the U.S. Constitution prohibits religious tests for public office.[59] Declining to discuss details about his religion also reduced the risk that doctrinal differences will alienate evangelical Christian voters.[75] Romney instead addressed religion in general, saying that as president he would "need the prayers of the people of all faiths," and that he would "serve no one religion, no one group, no one cause, and no one interest. A president must serve only the common cause of the people of the United States."[59]

Mitt Romney was the third U.S. presidential candidate of the Mormon faith to have a high likelihood of achieving a major political party's nomination. The first of these three was Romney's own father, George W. Romney, a progressive on Civil Rights who reorganized the American Motors Corporation. George Romney, while Governor of Michigan, ran for president in 1968 as a popular alternative to Richard M. Nixon for Republican nomination.

The second was Mo Udall, the liberal Arizona congressman. He gained considerable support throughout the 1976 primary race as a rival to Jimmy Carter, who campaigned as a devout evangelical. During the latter part of Udall's campaign, he faced criticism from black activists concerning the fact that the church stated as his religious affiliation, the LDS Church, barred black members from holding its lay priesthood. (This policy was changed in 1978.) In response to this criticism, Udall withdrew nominal affiliation with the denomination in 1976.

Differing from Udall, Mitt Romney is a social conservative. Paralleling Udall's rivalry with the outspokenly evangelical candidate Jimmy Carter, one of Romney's chief rivals in 2007 was also a self-professing evangelical and former Southern governor, Mike Huckabee.[77]

Romney is a proponent of contemporary monogamous, heterosexual marriage:[78]

There is nothing more awful, in my view, than the violation of the marriage covenant that one has with one's wife. The practice of polygamy is abhorrent, it's awful, and it drives me nuts that people who are polygamists keep pretending to use the umbrella of my church. ... My church abhors it, it excommunicates people who practice it, and it's got nothing to do with my faith.
The question of whether Mormons are considered "Christians" remains a sensitive issue, with possible political implications.[1][67][68][79] As such, analysts expected Romney's affiliation with the LDS Church to become an issue again on the campaign trail.[1] In regards to that question, a June 2011 Pew Research poll, found that one out of every four American voters said they would be less likely to vote for a candidate if he or she were Mormon.[67]

When asked about his faith's view on gay rights in a June 2011 interview with CNN's Piers Morgan, Romney stated:

I'm not a spokesman for my church, and one thing I'm not going to do in running for president is become a spokesman for my church or apply a religious test that is simply forbidden by the Constitution, I'm not going there. If you want to learn about my church, talk to my church.[67]
Rick Santorum was asked if Jon Huntsman and Mitt Romney will have problems in the race as Mormons. Santorum answered,

"I hope not." He continued, "I hope that people will look at the qualities of candidates and look at what they believe and what they're for and look their records and then make a decision."[80]
Joe Biden said;

"I find it preposterous that in 2011 we're debating whether or not a man is qualified or worthy of your vote based on whether or not his religion ... is a disqualifying provision," Biden told an audience at the University of Pittsburgh. "It is not. It is embarrassing and we should be ashamed, anyone who thinks that way," he said in a response to a student's question about how his own religious faith affected his philosophy of government.[81]
On State of the Union with Candy Crowley, David Axelrod was asked on Mormonism as a campaign issue. He said: "We've said that's not fair game".[82]


Big Fat Liar is a 2002 American teen comedy film directed by Shawn Levy, and written by Dan Schneider from a story by Schneider and Brian Robbins. It stars Frankie Muniz, Paul Giamatti and Amanda Bynes, with a supporting cast featuring Amanda Detmer, Donald Faison, Lee Majors and Russell Hornsby.

The plot, alluding to Aesop's Fable The Boy Who Cried Wolf,[2] follows a 14-year-old boy (Muniz) whose creative writing assignment "Big Fat Liar" is stolen by an arrogant Hollywood producer (Giamatti) who plans to use it to make the fictional film of the same name. It was released in the United States on February 8, 2002 by Universal Pictures to mixed to negative reviews from critics while grossing $53 million worldwide against a $15 million budget. It was followed by a direct-to-video sequel, titled Bigger Fatter Liar, in 2017.

Jason Shepherd is a 14-year-old compulsive liar living in the town of Greenbury, Michigan, who tries to lie his way out of failing to write a creative writing assignment. He gets caught by his English teacher, Ms. Caldwell, and is given three hours to submit his essay and avoid repeating English in summer school. Remembering a comment from his father about making up stories being his “God-given talent”, he writes a story titled “Big Fat Liar”, drawing inspiration from his lying.

While riding his sister's old bike to turn in the essay (due to a bully stealing his skateboard earlier), Jason is accidentally struck by a limousine belonging to Marty Wolf, an arrogant and unscrupulous Hollywood producer, whom Jason blackmails into giving him a ride. Marty, a pathological liar, is in town shooting his next film Whitaker and Fowl. In a rush, Jason accidentally leaves his essay in the limo when it falls out of his backpack. Inspired, Marty keeps the story for himself. Realizing his essay is missing, Jason gets sent to summer school after failing to convince his parents and Ms. Caldwell that his essay was left in Marty's limo.

During the summer, Jason and his friend Kaylee go to the movies together where a teaser trailer for Big Fat Liar is shown. After failing to convince Jason's parents of the truth, they fly to Los Angeles while their parents are out of town for the weekend and sneak into Marty's studio office. Jason demands that Marty confess to his parents, but he refuses, purposefully burns his essay, and calls security to remove him. Angered, the teens plot to inconvenience Marty until he confesses. Marty's former limo driver and struggling actor Frank Jackson agrees to help.

Jason and Kaylee sabotage Marty through pranks such as dyeing his skin blue via his swimming pool and his hair orange via his shampoo. They also superglue his headset to his ear, trick him into going to a child's birthday party, where the children mistake him for the hired clown and attack him, and tamper with his car's controls, which causes it to malfunction. These pranks cause Marty to miss both of his appointments with Universal Pictures president Marcus Duncan. Seeing the commercial and critical failure of Whitaker and Fowl, Marcus threatens to shut down production on Big Fat Liar. Jason offers to help Marty in exchange for his confession to his parents.

During a party at Marty's house following the premiere of Whitaker and Fowl, he uses Jason's advice to make a successful presentation and get Marcus to approve the film. Marty goes back on his deal with Jason and calls security to remove him and Kaylee again. Fed up with his abuse, Marty's assistant and aspiring producer Monty Kirkham offers to help them expose him, rallying Marty's other tormented employees, while Jason calls his parents to tell them the truth about the weekend.

The next morning, Marty heads to the studio to begin filming Big Fat Liar, but his employees delay him through many mishaps. As he finally arrives, he encounters Jason, who steals his stuffed monkey toy, Mr. Funnybones. Jason flees across the studio with Kaylee's help, luring Marty to a rooftop where he retrieves his toy and mocks Jason. Marty boastfully admits his actions, unaware that the entire conversation is being broadcast to Jason's parents, the media, and Marcus, who immediately fires him for dishonesty and plagiarism. Furious, Marty tries to attack Jason, but Jason leaps off the building and safely lands on a stunt cushion where he reunites with his parents, now aware that he was telling the truth and did all this to prove it.

Universal produces Big Fat Liar with the talents of those whom Marty mistreated, including Monty as writer and producer, and Frank starring as the lead character Kenny Trooper. Jason receives full credit for his story, and the film becomes a success, as Jason's parents and Ms. Caldwell are proud of him.

Marty now works as a birthday clown named "Wolfie the Clown". His first job is at a house where a boy named Darren lives. Unfortunately for him, Darren's father is the Masher, who, as retribution for Marty previously damaging his truck, has Darren drop-kick Marty in the groin.

Kenan Thompson, Dustin Diamond, and the film's director Shawn Levy appear as guests at the after party of the premiere of Wolf's action comedy Whitaker and Fowl, which they criticize. Jaleel White also appears uncredited as himself portraying Officer Fowl in Whitaker and Fowl and is often annoyed when Wolf calls him "Urkel".

Screenwriter John Hamburg provided rewrites during production, but final writing credits were awarded to Dan Schneider (screenplay/story) and producer Brian Robbins (story only).[3]

Big Fat Liar was filmed from March to June 2001. The film was filmed at Universal Studios Hollywood (with sets from the film The Scorpion King visible in some scenes) and its Flash Flood set, and Los Angeles International Airport, as well as in Glendale, Monrovia, Pasadena, and Whittier, California.[citation needed]

The exotic Intermec 6651 Handheld PC appears as the computer used by Lester Golub to help Jason by releasing a stream of water into Marty's path.[4]

The film's soundtrack was released by Mercury Records in 2002.

The film was released in cinemas on February 8, 2002, by Universal Pictures and was released on VHS and DVD in Full Screen format in Region 1 while in region 2 was released in Widescreen on September 24, 2002, by Universal Studios Home Entertainment. The DVD release contains an unlockable cheat code for Spyro 2: Season of Flame that turns Spyro the Dragon blue, as seen in one of Jason's pranks on Marty. It was released on Blu-ray in Widescreen format for the first time in Region 1 on March 4, 2014.[5]

The film grossed $48.4 million in the United States and Canada and $4.6 million in other countries for a worldwide total of $53 million, against a budget of $15 million.[1]

The film grossed $11.6 million in its opening weekend, finishing in second at the box office behind Collateral Damage ($15.1 million).[6][7]

On Rotten Tomatoes, Big Fat Liar has an approval rating of 45% based on 93 reviews, with an average rating of 5/10. The site's critical consensus read, "Though there's nothing that offensive about Big Fat Liar, it is filled with Hollywood cliches and cartoonish slapstick, making it strictly for kids."[8] Metacritic assigned the film a weighted average score 36 out of 100 based on 24 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.[9] Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale.[10]

Some critics called the film energetic and witty, but others called it dull and formulaic. Ebert and Roeper gave it "Two Thumbs Up".[citation needed] In his review for the Chicago Sun-Times, Ebert gave it 3 out of 4, and called it "A surprisingly entertaining movie [...] ideal for younger kids, and not painful for their parents."[11] Michael O'Sullivan of The Washington Post called the film "an innocent comedic revenge fantasy that somehow manages to be sweet and wickedly satisfying at the same time."[12]

In August 2016, it was announced that a standalone sequel had begun principal photography.[16] Bigger Fatter Liar starred Ricky Garcia as Kevin Shepherd, Jodelle Ferland as Becca, Fiona Vroom as Penny, Kevin O'Grady as Ivan, Karen Holness as Miss Walker, and Barry Bostwick as Larry Wolf. The plot, though unrelated to the first film, was similar in many ways to Big Fat Liar. Released directly to DVD in April 2017, the film was met with critical and commercial failure.[17] It was later released on Blu-ray in July 2018.[18]

In March 2022, Shawn Levy revealed that he has always wanted to make a direct-sequel to Big Fat Liar, stating that the plot would include a Marty Wolf revenge story. Levy referenced the revitalized Real Steel franchise in the form of the upcoming television series, as hope for a future Big Fat Liar sequel to be made.[19]
The Songtao Reservoir (Chinese: 松涛水库; pinyin: Sōngtāo Shuǐkù), also known as the Songtao Reservoir Irrigation Area, is the largest body of water in Hainan, and the second largest reservoir[1] in China.[4]

Located upstream of the Nandu River approximately 20 kilometres (12 mi) southeast of Danzhou City, the reservoir covers 0.17 percent of the island and has a total capacity of 3,340,000,000 cubic metres (1.18×1011 cu ft). The reservoir contains more than 100 islands, and is used for agriculture, fisheries, and tourism.[5]



This Hainan location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.Embekka Devalaya (Embekka Temple) was built by the King Vikramabahu III of Gampola Era (AD 1357–1374) in Sri Lanka. The Devalaya is dedicated to Kataragama deviyo, a form of Kartikeya. A local deity called Devatha Bandara is also worshiped at this site. The shrine consists of three sections, the "Sanctum of Garagha", the "Digge" or "Dancing Hall" and the "Hevisi Mandapaya" or the "Drummers' Hall". The Drummers' Hall has drawn the attention of visitors to the site, due to the splendid wood carvings[2] of its ornate pillars and its high pitched roof.

Embekke Devalaya is situated in Medapalata Korale of Udunuwara in Kandy District. This is a sheltered place used to rest during long pilgrimage or long journeys in ancient days of Sri Lanka. This Ambalama is said to be built during AD 1341–1357 by the King Bhuwanekabhahu IV.

It is said that some of the wood work utilized for the "Drummers' Hall" came from an abandoned "Royal Audience Hall" at Gampola. There is every possibility the hall has seen repairs during the reigns of the Sinhalese Kings of Kandy. The carvings, which adorn the wooden pillars of the drummers' hall, as well as the "Vahalkada" (the entrance porch of the Devala, which is said to be older) are some of the best examples of Sinhalese art. The base of the wooden pillars are octagonal shaped while their pillar top or "Pekada", has four leaves stacked in a square. The most noted and famous carvings out of them are the entwined swans, double headed eagles, entwined rope designs, breast-feeding image, a soldier fighting on horseback, female dancers, wrestlers, women emanating from a vein, bird-human hybrid, elephant-bull hybrid and elephant-lion hybrid.

The roof has significant features. The rafters all slant from above towards the incoming visitor are fixed together and kept in position by a "Madol Kurupawa", a kind of a giant catch pin the like of which we do not find elsewhere. When we consider the carvings of the entire temple there are about 125 series of decorations, 256 liyawela type designs, and 64 lotus designs, 30 decorative patterns and roof designs, ending up in 514 unique designs.

Nevertheless, all these carved pillars are belonging to 18th century.






The following lists the top 25 (end of year) charting singles on the Australian Singles Charts, for the year of 1964. These were the best charting singles in Australia for 1964. The source for this year is the "Kent Music Report", known from 1987 onwards as the "Australian Music Report".

These charts are calculated by David Kent of the Kent Music Report and they are based on the number of weeks and position the records reach within the top 100 singles for each week.

source: David Kent's "Australian Chart Book 1940-1969"


The 2023 Hungarian Grand Prix (officially known as the Formula 1 Qatar Airways Hungarian Grand Prix 2023) was a Formula One motor race that was held on 23 July 2023 at the Hungaroring circuit in Mogyoród, Hungary. It was the eleventh round of the 2023 Formula One World Championship.

The race saw the first pole position for Lewis Hamilton since the 2021 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix. Max Verstappen won the race, allowing Red Bull Racing to break the record for most consecutive wins for a constructor, with 12. The race also marked the return of Daniel Ricciardo as a full time driver, replacing Nyck de Vries at AlphaTauri.

The event was held across the weekend of 21–23 July. It was the eleventh round of the 2023 Formula One World Championship and the 39th running of the Hungarian Grand Prix.[2]

Coming into the weekend, Max Verstappen led the Drivers' Championship by 99 points from teammate Sergio Pérez, with Fernando Alonso third, a further 19 points behind. Red Bull Racing led the Constructors' Championship, leading Mercedes by 208 points and Aston Martin by a further 22 points.[3]

The drivers and teams were the same as the season entry list with the exception of Daniel Ricciardo, who replaced Nyck de Vries at AlphaTauri starting from this Grand Prix.[4][5]

Tyre supplier Pirelli brought the C3, C4 and C5 tyre compounds (designated hard, medium, and soft, respectively) for teams to use at the event.[6]

A reduction in allocated tyre sets from the standard 13 to 11 was trialled during this Grand Prix, with the intention of making tyre usage more sustainable. The usage of tyre compounds during qualifying was mandated as hard in Q1, medium in Q2 and soft in Q3, assuming that the weather is dry.[7]

Three free practice sessions were held for the event, consisted of two one-hour sessions on 21 July, at 13:30 and 18:00 local time (UTC+2), and a one-hour practice session on 22 July at 13:30.[8] The first practice session was red-flagged twice after Sergio Pérez and Carlos Sainz Jr. crashed in changing conditions; Pérez's crash inflicted heavy damage to his Red Bull Racing RB19, and Sainz was able to recover to the road as the red flag was waved.[9] The first session ended with George Russell fastest ahead of Oscar Piastri and Lance Stroll.[10] Charles Leclerc was fastest in the second practice session, with Lando Norris and Pierre Gasly finishing second and third, respectively.[11] The third session ended with Lewis Hamilton fastest, with Max Verstappen and Sergio Pérez finishing second and third, respectively.[12]

Qualifying was held on 22 July 2023, at 16:00 local time (UTC+2).[8]

Hards were used for the first segment, Q1, where Zhou Guanyu was fastest in his Alfa Romeo in front of Max Verstappen and Sergio Pérez. A brief scuffle with traffic towards the end of the first session was detrimental to George Russell, who alongside Kevin Magnussen, Logan Sargeant, Yuki Tsunoda and Alexander Albon were all knocked out.[13] Meanwhile, Valtteri Bottas and Lance Stroll were investigated for impeding. No action was taken.[14]

Mediums were used for the second segment, Q2. Lando Norris led the session early on with Oscar Piastri behind him. Verstappen initially topped the timesheets but his lap was deleted due to track limits. Nico Hülkenberg was sixth as Bottas returned to fourth. Tenth-placed Fernando Alonso snuck into the final segment (Q3) by a gap of 0.002 seconds, knocking out Carlos Sainz Jr. Sainz was joined by Daniel Ricciardo, Esteban Ocon, Stroll and Pierre Gasly as part of the group all eliminated.[13]

Softs were used for the third and final segment, Q3. This was Pérez's first time in Q3 since the Miami Grand Prix two months ago; he would qualify ninth, ahead of Hülkenberg. Verstappen put his car on provisional pole until Hamilton pushed through to make his first pole position since the 2021 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix – and breaking a streak of consecutive Verstappen poles dating back to the Miami Grand Prix. Zhou put up the highest qualifying performance of his career in fifth, with his teammate Bottas in seventh behind Charles Leclerc. Norris and Piastri continued to show the McLaren MCL60's newfound pace by qualifying third and fourth. Alonso was in eighth.[15][16]

The race was held on 23 July 2023, at 15:00 local time (UTC+2).[8]

At the start, Max Verstappen overtook polesitter Lewis Hamilton into turn 1 and led the rest of the 70-lap race comfortably, initially with Oscar Piastri behind him. Also in turn 1, Zhou Guanyu, after a poor start, rear-ended Daniel Ricciardo, who was pushed into the back of Ocon. This pushed Ocon into Gasly, with the latter two retiring. This meant Ricciardo was momentarily in last place.[19]

Tyre changes shook up the order, with Pérez ending up second behind Verstappen, who was leading comfortably; Verstappen would come into the pits himself and retain his lead. Charles Leclerc was under attack by Lance Stroll and Carlos Sainz Jr., but Stroll fell behind as Fernando Alonso moved past him. Pérez stopping meant that Lando Norris was second, and Pérez soon overtook Norris' teammate Piastri for fourth with a small push for Piastri into the grass, which stewards did not investigate. Soon, Hamilton took Piastri's spot but could not catch Pérez.[19][20] Leclerc sped in the pit lane, at a speed of 80.7 km/h (50.1 mph) compared to a limit of 80 km/h (50 mph), and received a five-second penalty.[21]

By the end of the race, Verstappen pulled out a 33-second gap – Verstappen's highest of the season – as Norris continued to defend against Pérez. Logan Sargeant had a spin, resulting in his retirement. Red Bull won the race, breaking the record for most consecutive wins by a constructor, with 12, McLaren had previously held the record since 1988, with 11 consecutive wins. McLaren's Norris took second place with Piastri in fifth. Alonso and Stroll were ninth and tenth, respectively. Second place for Norris marked the first time in his Formula One career that he had claimed back to back podiums and the first time McLaren had achieved consecutive podiums since they achieved back to back wins with Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button at the 2012 United States Grand Prix and 2012 Brazilian Grand Prix, respectively.[22][23][20][24]

On the podium, Norris accidentally broke Verstappen's trophy – a hand-made Herend vase valued at about $45,000 – during the celebrations. Norris initially poked fun at the incident, "blaming" Verstappen for it, although he subsequently apologised to Verstappen and his team. Herend produced a replacement trophy at no cost, which was presented to Verstappen in late August with Norris in attendance holding a fake invoice for the trophy.[25][26]

Notes


Shuakhevi (Georgian: შუახევის მუნიციპალიტეტი) is a district of Georgia, in the autonomous republic of Adjara. Its main town is Shuakhevi.

Population: 20,120[1]

Area: 588 km2

Shuakhevi Municipal Assembly (Georgian: შუახევის საკრებულო, Shuakhevi Sakrebulo) is a representative body in Shuakhevi Municipality, consisting of 21 members which are elected every four years. The last election was held in October 2021. Omar Takidze of Georgian Dream was elected mayor. 

41°38′N 42°11′E﻿ / ﻿41.633°N 42.183°E﻿ / 41.633; 42.183

This Georgia location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.In the Odyssey by Homer, Demodocus (/dɪˈmɒdəkəs/; Ancient Greek: Δημόδοκος, romanized: Dēmódokos) is a poet who often visits the court of Alcinous, king of the Phaeacians on the island of Phaeacia (also called Scheria). During Odysseus' stay on Scherie, Demodocus performs three narrative songs.

Demodocus first appears at a feast in the hall of Alcinous, after he approved that Odysseus should be provided with a ship for a safe passage home. During the feast Demodocus sings about the disagreement between Odysseus and Achilles at Troy. Everyone enjoys the singing except for Odysseus who bursts into tears because of the pain and suffering of which the song reminds him. Odysseus would raise his cup and pour libations to the gods every time there was a pause in the singing but when Demodocus began again Odysseus would pull his cloak over his head to hide his tears. Only Alcinous noticed Odysseus' weeping and stopped the feast and suggests that everyone go outdoors to participate in athletic contests.

The games end with dancing and another song from Demodocus. This time he sang of the love between Ares and Aphrodite. Hephaestus was Aphrodite's husband and found out about the affair because Helios told him that he had seen Ares and Aphrodite lying together. Hephaestus sets up an inescapable trap over his bed. When Ares and Aphrodite go to bed, they are snared in the trap and caught by Hephaestus. At dinner, after the sun had gone down, Odysseus asks Demodocus to sing his third song. Odysseus cut off a sizable piece of pork from his own portion and told a herald to bring it to Demodocus. Demodocus was grateful and began to sing. He sang of the Trojan horse and the sack of Troy. Again, Odysseus weeps uncontrollably and is able to hide it from everyone except Alcinous who ends the singing and asks Odysseus who he really is.[1]

Demodocus is described as blind: "The squire now came, leading their favorite bard, whom the Muse loved above all others, [al]though she had mingled good and evil in her gifts, robbing him of his eyes but granting him the gift of sweet song."[2]


Benedict Lapham (June 26, 1816 – June 16, 1883) was a New England industrialist and philanthropist.

He was born in Burrillville, Rhode Island to a Yankee family on June 26, 1816.[1][2] His parents were Phebe Arnold and Reverend Richard Lapham, a farmer, and a minister in the Wesleyan Methodist Church.[3] Lapham farmed before becoming involved in manufacturing in Burrillville, Rhode Island, and Palmer and Douglas, Massachusetts, and he managed a farm for the Albion Manufacturing Company in Smithfield, Rhode Island.[3] Lapham attended Bushee's Academy at Bank Village, Rhode Island studying mechanics and later worked several years as a carpenter and wheelwright.[3] He then worked with the Tillinghast factory in East Greenwich, and the other mills in North Scituate, Centreville, Wallum Pond, Pascoag, and Warwick, Rhode Island.[3]

He married Ann Eliza Austin in November 1849.[2]

Lapham served in the militia during the Dorr Rebellion and was  a member of Rhode Island House of Representatives, Rhode Island State Senate, state commissioner of the Antietam Cemetery, president of the town council, Delegate to the 1860 Republican National Convention, justice of the peace.[3] In 1863 he purchased and funded the Smithville Seminary and gave it back to the Free Will Baptist Association. It was renamed the Lapham Institute in his honor,[4] but closed in 1876.

He died at his home in Centerville, Rhode Island on June 16, 1883, and was buried in Swan Point Cemetery.[3][5]
Cicuco (Spanish pronunciation: [siˈkuko]) is a town and municipality located in the Bolívar Department, northern Colombia.

This Bolívar Department location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.
9°16′N 74°39′W﻿ / ﻿9.267°N 74.650°W﻿ / 9.267; -74.650
The Federation of Athletic Societies of France (French: Fédération des sociétés athlétiques de France, FSAF) is a French sports federation. In 1906, it changed its name to Federation of Professional Athletic Societies of France (FSAPF), and this modification marked the end of the "open war" waged against the USFSA, which from then onwards, officially delegated the management of professional sport in France to the FSAPF.[1] The federation was again named FSAF after the war.

The FSAF French Football Championship is a French football competition organized by the Federation of Athletic Societies of France (FSAF).[2] Organized into regional championships (Paris with 3 series, North, South-East, and South-West), the winners met to compete for the title of Champion of France.[2] It was held every year from 1897 until the outbreak of the First World War in 1914, and then it had two more editions in 1922 and 1924.[2]

In 1894, the USFSA created a French Football Championship reserved for amateurs, because this federation was opposed to professionalism, particularly because of the transfers and bets generated by the professionalization of football in England from 1885 onwards. So the FSAF then created a football championship for professionals, which was denigrated by the leaders of French sport, but nevertheless enjoyed remarkable popular success in Paris and benefited from significant coverage in the press. Despite its "professional" name, the players of this federation did not make a living from football and did not make it their profession: they did, however, receive some modest bonuses, which was prohibited in other federations and set the FSAF apart.[3]

The FSAF managed other competitions such as the Challenge Henri Jaeggé, the Challenge Compan, the Coupe Juniors (for newly formed young teams), the Coupe Anthoine (organized by the UA Batignollaise) or the Challenge Klein (organized by the AS Lilloise). In 1904, 77 teams participated in the various events managed by the FSAF. In 1905, the entry fee for the 1st Series Paris Championship was 25 francs, with the winner receiving 500 francs, a diploma, and the title of Paris Champion, while the runner-up received 200 francs and the third 100 francs.[4] In 1907, FSAF became a member of the French Interfederal Committee and the winner of the FSAF Football Championship competed for the Trophée de France.[2]

After the war ended, two more editions were held, the first in 1922, in which the final took place in Aubervilliers on 19 March, with UA Bordelaise beating AC Fiersois.[5] On 13 April 1924, the semifinals were contested between UA Bordelaise and AS Montreuilloise; and JS Lilloise and CA de la Marne, but the results and the winner remain unknown.[6]


Jacob Thomas VC (February 1833 – 3 March 1911)[1] was a Welsh recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.

Thomas was about 24 years old, and a bombardier in the Bengal Artillery, Bengal Army during the Indian Mutiny when the following deed took place on 27 September 1857 at the Siege of Lucknow, British India for which he was awarded the VC:

For distinguished gallantry at Lucknow on the 27th September, 1857, in having brought off on his back, under a heavy fire, under circumstances of considerable difficulty, a wounded soldier of the Madras Fusiliers, when the party to which he was attached was returning to the Residency from a sortie, whereby he saved him from falling into the hands of the enemy.[2]
He later achieved the rank of quartermaster-sergeant. He was born in Llanwinio near Carmarthen and died near  Darjeeling aged 77.

His Victoria Cross is displayed at the Royal Artillery Museum, Woolwich, England.
Arjas (Persian: ارجاس, also Romanized as Arjās; also known as Argus, Arjāsb, and Ugāsin)[1] is a village in Khenaman Rural District, in the Central District of Rafsanjan County, Kerman Province, Iran. 

At the 2006 census, its population was 50, in 22 families.[2]

This Rafsanjan County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Charles-Ignace Gill (March 12, 1844 – September 16, 1901) was a Quebec lawyer and political figure. He represented Yamaska in the Legislative Assembly of Quebec from 1871 to 1874 and in the House of Commons of Canada as a Conservative member from 1874 to 1879.

He was born in Saint-François-du-Lac, Canada East in 1844, the son of Ignace Gill and studied at the Collège de Nicolet and the Université Laval. He articled in law with Ulric-Joseph Tessier, was admitted to the bar in 1867 and set up practice at Sorel. In 1870, he married Marie-Rosalie-Delphine, the daughter of Louis-Adélard Senécal. In 1871, he was elected to the provincial assembly. He resigned in 1874 to run for a seat in the House of Commons. He resigned in 1879 when he was named as a judge to the Quebec Superior Court in Richelieu district; in 1886, he was named to Montreal district. He was also a director of the Montreal, Portland and Boston Railway.

He died in Montreal in 1901.


Eressa nigra is a moth of the family Erebidae. It was discovered by George Hampson in 1893. It is found in India (Simla).[1]



This Syntomini-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.


This is a list of venues used for professional baseball in Detroit, Michigan.

Home of:

Location: Brady Street (south, home plate); Beaubien Street (east, right field); Harper Hospital and John R Street (west, left field); Brush Street T-intersecting Brady from the south (southwest, third base side); location often given as "Brady and Brush Streets." About 18 blocks north-northwest along Brady from the site of Comerica Park

Currently: Approximate ballpark site occupied by Children's Hospital of Michigan, part of Detroit Medical Center

Home of: Detroit - Northwestern League (1891 - a few games in late May / early June before folding)

Location: "between Jefferson Avenue and Detroit River, across from Belle Isle" (also across from a horse race track north of Jefferson) (Okkonen). Jefferson Avenue (north, first base) [1]; adjacent to clubhouses of Michigan Yacht Club and Detroit Yacht Club.

Currently: Owen Park

Home of: Detroit Tigers - Western League (1894–1895)

Location: north side of Champlain Street (now East Lafayette Street - home plate) between Grand Boulevard (right field) and Helen Avenue (left field); location usually given as "Lafayette (or Champlain) and Helen"

Currently: Church of the Messiah (Episcopal), residential, vacant lot

Home of: Detroit Tigers - American League (1912–1999)

Location: 2121 Trumbull Avenue (east, right field); Michigan Avenue (south, first base); Cherry Street (later Kaline Drive - north, left field); National Avenue (later Cochrane Street - west, third base).  On same site as earlier Bennett Park - stands demolished and rebuilt, and home plate moved from southeast corner to southwest corner of site.

Currently: Willie Horton Field of Dreams at The Corner Ballpark[2]

Home of: Detroit Tigers AL American League (1900 [as minor league], 1901–1902; Sundays only)

Location: "southwest corner Toledo Avenue [now Vernor Highway] and Waterman Avenue"[3]

Currently: Industrial area near rail yards

Home of: Detroit Stars - Negro National League (1920–1931)

Location: southeast corner of Mack Avenue (first base) and Fairview Street (right field); just north of Southeastern High School

Currently: Fairview Apartments

Home of:

Location: in Hamtramck, Michigan - A block east of Joseph Campau Street near Dan Street (southwest, home plate); Berres Street (dead ends to the west); Roosevelt Street (northwest) - address given as 3201 Dan Street.

Currently: Veterans Memorial Park baseball field; Keyworth Stadium is just to the northeast

Home of: Detroit Stars - Negro American League (1937)

Location: Dequindre Avenue (east); Modern Street (south); Orleans Street (southwest); Riopelle Street (also southwest); south of Six Mile (McNichols) Road; roughly 2½ miles northwest of Hamtramck Stadium

Currently: Caramagno Foods Facility

Home of: Detroit Tigers - AL (2000–present)

Location: 2100 Woodward Avenue (ballpark is actually one block east of Woodward); Witherell Street (west, right field); East Adams Avenue (south, center field); Brush Street (east, left field); East Montcalm Street (north, home plate)
Pleșoiu is a commune in Olt County, Oltenia, Romania. It is composed of seven villages: Arcești, Arcești-Cot, Cocorăști, Doba, Pleșoiu, Schitu din Deal and Schitu din Vale.

This Olt County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.Bernard Tomic defeated Kevin Anderson in the final, 6–3, 6–7(2–7), 6–3 to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2013 Apia International Sydney. It was his first ATP Tour title.[1]

Jarkko Nieminen was the defending champion, but lost to Tomic in the quarterfinals.

Key
King's Highway 58, commonly referred to as Highway 58, is a provincially maintained highway in the Canadian province of Ontario. The route is divided into two segments with a combined length of 15.5 km (9.6 mi). The southern segment travels from Niagara Regional Road 3, formerly Highway 3, in Port Colborne, to the Highway 58A junction in the southern end of Welland, a distance of 7.2 km (4.5 mi). The northern segment begins at Highway 20 near Allanburg and travels north and west to a large junction with Highway 406 at the St. Catharines – Thorold boundary, a distance of 8.3 km (5.2 mi). An 18.1 km (11.2 mi) gap separates the two segments within Welland and Pelham. The entire route is located within the Regional Municipality of Niagara.

The history of Highway 58 is tumultuous due to various relocation projects resulting from the construction of the fourth Welland Canal and Highway 406. Prior to 1997, Highway 58 was continuous and travelled through the west side of Welland, maintained under a Connecting Link agreement. The route was first established in 1935, though it remained unnumbered on the 1935 and 1936 official road maps. By 1937 it extended from Port Colborne to St. Catharines, though the route it travelled between those places shifted several times over the following 30 years. In the late 1990s, the Ministry of Transportation of Ontario (MTO) transferred several highways or portions of highways throughout the province to lower levels of government. Highway 58 was decommissioned through Welland on April 1, 1997.

The segment between Highway 406 in Thorold and Niagara Road 57 east of Thorold is a four-lane freeway. It also contains the Thorold Tunnel, one of the three tunnels under the Welland Canal. The remaining segments vary between a two-lane rural highway and four-lane urban roadway. Overall, the highway is 15.5 km (9.6 mi) in length, with a 18.1-kilometre (11.2 mi) gap separating the two sections.[2][3]

The southern section of Highway 58 begins at a junction with the former Highway 3 in the city of Port Colborne, several kilometres north of Lake Erie. South of this intersection, the road once continued as Niagara Regional Road 64 to Killaly Street; such has since been downloaded to the city of Port Colborne.[3] Proceeding north, the highway, known locally as West Side Road, passes through the suburbs of Port Colborne, north of which it skirts the eastern edge of the Wainfleet Bog, one of the few remaining habitats of the Massasauga Rattlesnake.[4]
West of Dain City, Highway 58 crosses the Port Colborne – Welland boundary at Forks Road, a grade-separated intersection. The route crosses several rail lines on a bridge south of its terminus at Highway 58A (Humberstone Road) at the southern edge of the built up area of Welland. North of there, it continues as Niagara Regional Road 54 (Prince Charles Drive)[3]

The northern section of Highway 58 begins at an intersection with the western terminus of Highway 20, approximately 3.5 kilometres (2.2 mi) east of Highway 406, within Thorold. South of this intersection, the road that carries Highway 58 continues as Niagara Regional Road 82, whereas west of the intersection the road that carries Highway 20, Lundy's Lane, continues as Niagara Regional Road 58 through Allanburg. Highway 58 proceeds north, at first along an established concession road, before branching to the east on its own alignment known as Davis Road. The route crosses several flooded valleys that form part of the Welland Canal before arriving at Thorold Stone Road, at which point Highway 58 turns west and enters the Thorold Tunnel, descending beneath the canal.[3]

At the western end of the tunnel, Highway 58 emerges as a divided highway in Thorold. It meets an interchange with Pine Street; the eastbound on-ramp from Pine Street features a stop sign and no merging lane prior to entering the Thorold Tunnel. West of Pine Street, the route passes beneath a Trillium Railway line and curves slightly southwest. It encounters an interchange with Collier Street, gradually curving to the northwest and passing beneath Richmond Street. Highway 58 ends at a complicated interchange with both St. Davids Road as well as Highway 406 on the edge of the Niagara Escarpment.[3]

The first portion of what became Highway 58 was assumed on September 4, 1935. Although only a short stub travelling south from Main Street in Welland (then Highway 3A), it connected to a road owned by the Welland Canal Authority (WCA) travelling along the east side of the old canal,[1]
now known by various names including Barber Drive, Canal Road, Kingsway, and Canal Bank Street.[3] Initially unnumbered, the route was extended to Port Colborne and St. Catharines on October 6, 1937,[5]
and by then had been given the designation of Highway 58. It now began at Highway 3 in Port Colborne and travelled to Welland along the east side of the canal, and thereafter north along Niagara Street, the Merrittville Highway and Glenridge Road (Niagara Regional Road 50) to Highway 8 in downtown St. Catharines.[3][6]

On July 17 and 30, 1958, the Department of Highways assumed the West Side Road, constructed in the years prior by Welland County between Port Colborne and Welland.[7][8]
The old highway was turned back to the WCA on June 26 and September 4 of that same year.[7]
Highway 58 then entered Welland along what is now Prince Charles Drive, meeting and becoming concurrent with Highway 3A at Riverside Drive / Lincoln Street and then turning east along East Main Street.[9]
By 1960, the Welland Bypass was completed along the routing of the former Niagara, St. Catharines and Toronto Railway interurban line – the final operating interurban railway in Canada, which ceased operations on the line on March 28, 1959.[10]
This rerouted the highway along what is now Prince Charles Drive northwest to Thorold Road, where it turned east to Niagara Street.[11]

North of Welland, Highway 58 initially travelled concurrent with Highway 3A along Niagara Street and the Merrittville Highway to Highway 20, where Highway 3A ended. Highway 58 turned east and travelled concurrent with Highway 20 across the Welland Canal at Allanburg, before turning north onto the current route. However, it continued north along Allanburg Road into Thorold, where it crossed the Welland Canal on a swing bridge and travelled north into St. Catharines along Ormond Street, Merritt Street and Hartzel Road (Niagara Regional Road 52) to Highway 8 (Queenston Street, now Niagara Regional Road 81).[12]

The routing of Highway 58 was eventually upheaved by two major changes within the Niagara Peninsula. The first was the construction of the Thorold Tunnel, which was built as part of the larger Welland Bypass project of the Welland Canal in order to minimize road and rail crossings that plagued the length of the canal prior to the 1970s. The Thorold Tunnel was designed to carry a divided four lane road beneath the canal, bypassing the bridge between Allanburg Road and Ormond Street. It was built during the winter months between 1965 and 1967, with the canal drained,[13]
and opened on September 18, 1968.[14]
Following its completion, Highway 58 was rerouted through the tunnel, west of which it forked. At the Pine Road interchange, one fork travelled north on Pine, east along Richmond Street and north along Ormond Street (now Niagara Regional Road 52). The other fork followed the present route. As part of the creation of the Regional Municipality of Niagara, Highway 8 was transferred to the newly formed region as well as the original alignment of Highway 58.[15][16]

The second change was the initial construction of Highway 406 in the mid-1960s, establishing a new northern terminus for Highway 58 at the St. Davids Road interchange on the Niagara Escarpment. The St. Davids Road interchange was fully opened with the Highway 406 extension to Beaverdams Road on November 21, 1969.[17]
Eventually Highway 406 would reroute the section of Highway 58 along the Merrittville Highway between Welland and Highway 20 to instead turn east from Niagara Street along Merritt Road, where it curved north to become the two-laned Highway 406.[18][19]
This happened when Highway 406 was extended south from Beaverdams Road to Merritt Road on June 30, 1971.[20][21]

Budget constraints brought on by a recession in the 1990s resulted in the Mike Harris provincial government forming the Who Does What? committee in 1995 to determine cost-cutting measures in order to balance the budget after a deficit incurred by former premier Bob Rae.[22]
It was determined that many Ontario highways no longer serve long-distance traffic movement and should therefore be maintained by local or regional levels of government. The MTO consequently transferred many highways to lower levels of government in 1997 and 1998 (downloading), removing a significant percentage of the provincial highway network.[23]
As Highway 58 had largely been replaced by Highway 406, the central segment through Welland and Pelham was deemed to no longer serve long-distance traffic, and was downloaded to the Regional Municipality of Niagara on April 1, 1997.[24]
It now exists as Regional Road 54 along Prince Charles Drive and Regional Road 50 along Niagara Street and the Merrittville Highway.[3]

No part of Highway 58 today follows the original 1935 route along the Welland Canal. Only a 6.7-kilometre (4.2 mi) section of the 1937 routing, north from Highway 20 (Lundy's Lane) is still used by the route now.[3]

The following table lists the major junctions along Highway 58, as noted by the Ministry of Transportation of Ontario.[2] The entire route is located in the Regional Municipality of Niagara.[3] 


Caragols a la llauna (or cargols a la llauna in certain dialects, or cargolada in Northern Catalonia) is a delicacy of Catalan cuisine. It is a simple dish of land snails cooked on a grill, or in a llauna (tin pan) in an oven.[1] The dish is particularly favored in Terres de Lleida, where it has been promoted since 1980 by L'Aplec del Caragol, and in the Pyrenees.

In the 1835 cookbook La cuynera catalana, there are two early recipes for snails with onion and rice.[2] The recipes are meatless, as they were once considered suitable for consumption during Lent.[2] The name petarrellada is sometimes used as a synonym for caragols a la llauna, although the term refers more specifically to the traditional method of roasting snails over a direct fire.[2]

Caragols are popular at the annual L'Aplec del Caragol festival in Lleida, where in 2024 over 14 tons were consumed in three days.[3] They are also eaten in the springtime at Fontcoberta and in the Balearic Islands.[2]

Caragols are often prepared by not feeding them for a week so that they internally self-cleanse, repeatedly washing them, and then boiling them.[4] Alternately, they can be left unboiled for what gourmands believe to be a better taste.[2] They are subsequently cooked in a metal tin, either baked in an oven or cooked over a fire.[2]

In Girona the local version involves chopped bacon being cooked inside the shell, whle in Northern Catalonia they are cooked with melted lard.[2]

They are often served with bread and dipping sauces like aioli or vinaigrette, and can be eaten by hand with a toothpick or fork to extract the meat from the shell.[5] The most common snail used in preparation of caragols a la llauna is the garden snail, known locally as bover.[5]


Al-Aghmur (Arabic: الأغمور) is a sub-district located in Manakhah District, Sana'a Governorate, Yemen. Al-Aghmur had a population of 4685 according to the 2004 census.[1][2][3]



This article about a location in the Sanaa Governorate of  Yemen is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.The Center for Women Writers is a literary arts organization based at Salem College in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. The Center for Women Writers was established in 1996,[1] which coincided with the 225th anniversary of the opening of Salem Academy & College. The first director was Annette Allen. In addition to hosting literary arts events, the Center for Women Writers underwrites an annual January Term Writer-in-Residence and manages the International Literary Awards, initially called the National Literary Awards.  These awards include the Reynolds Price Short Fiction Award, Rita Dove Poetry Award, and the Penelope Niven Creative Nonfiction Award.[2][3]


Shelly Burch is an American actress and singer known to television audiences for her role as Delilah Ralston on ABC's daytime soap opera One Life to Live, a role she played for eight years.

Born in Tucson, Arizona, she began performing as a teenager in community and regional musicals, ultimately moving to Washington, D.C., with her family when her father Dean Burch entered Republican party politics in the 1964 White House run for the Presidency by Barry Goldwater. She continued working in the D.C. area and eventually entered Carnegie Mellon University, where she stayed until a move to New York in the 70's. Shelly was cast in her first Broadway show six months after her arrival. She played one of Sammy Davis Jr.'s daughters in the revival of Stop the World – I Want to Get Off, which began its run in California and came to Lincoln Center, New York. In 1979, after several cabaret appearances, she snagged the role of Star-To-Be in Annie on Broadway, and also played the role of Lily St. Regis. In 1980, Tommy Tune cast her in his original Broadway production of Nine. She played the role of Claudia and introduced Maury Yeston's "Unusual Way". The role earned her kudos, including one from Frank Rich (then the drama critic for The New York Times), in which he called her "a Modigliani goddess with another strong voice and an almost otherworldly presence".[1] She also garnered a Drama Desk nomination for the role. She stayed with Nine until she was tapped to originate the role of the devilish Delilah Ralston on ABC-TV's long-running soap opera One Life to Live.[2] She stayed on the show for eight years, and at the same time honed her cabaret skills. In 1989, after having left Llanview (where One Life took place), she created the role of Julie for the Paper Mill Playhouse's production of Show Boat, which subsequently was filmed by PBS for Great Performances.

In 1990, she moved to Florida, got married and had three children. During her Florida residency, she continued to perform regionally and sang in numerous churches and at the Holy Land. She also worked extensively at Disneyland and continued her cabaret and night club career. She also performed at diverse locations such as the Republican National Convention and RFK Stadium, stirring audiences with her version of "The Star Spangled Banner". In 2003, after roles such as Patsy Cline in "An Evening With..." and Aldonza in Man of La Mancha, she called her old friend and Annie director Martin Charnin to come and create a new night club act for her. He did. The act played in Orlando, Washington, D.C., and eventually in 2009 came to the Metropolitan Room in New York City. In 2004, family-in-hand, she moved to the Pacific Northwest and became a regular in the Seattle and environs theater scene. In 2006, she and Mr. Charnin married and they continued working together in the Pacific Northwest, until they returned to the East Coast in July 2012. Shelly has done several revues at The Emelin Theatre in Mamaroneck, New York and several one-woman shows in New York City at 54 Below and The Metropolitan Room all directed by Mr. Charnin. She is currently working on a one-woman entertainment entitled Incurably Romantic featuring the music and lyrics of Mr. Charnin opening in December 2019.
The 2004–05 Druga HNL (also known as 2. HNL) season was the 14th season of Croatia's second level football since its establishment in 1992. The league was contested in two regional groups (North Division and South Division), with 12 clubs each.

Cibalia and Novalja, winners of the North and South Division, qualified for a two-legged promotion play-off, which took place on 24 and 28 May 2005. Cibalia won the tie 5–1 on aggregate score, thereby earning promotion to the Prva HNL for the following season.

However, Novalja had another chance for promotion, as the losing team from the promotion play-off played another two-legged tie against the 11th placed team of Prva HNL, Međimurje. Međimurje won 3–1 on aggregate.


Spring Valley is a village in Pierce and St. Croix counties in Wisconsin, United States. The population was 1,401 at the 2020 census. Of those, 1,390 were in Pierce County and 11 in St. Croix County. The village is mostly within the Town of Spring Lake in Pierce County. Small parts also lie in the Town of Gilman, also in Pierce County, and the Town of Cady in St. Croix County.

Spring Valley is located at 44°50′50″N 92°14′24″W﻿ / ﻿44.84722°N 92.24000°W﻿ / 44.84722; -92.24000 (44.847111, -92.240130),[5] along the Eau Galle River.

According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has an area of 4.54 square miles (11.76 km2), of which 4.14 square miles (10.72 km2) is land and 0.40 square miles (1.04 km2) is water.[6]

Crystal Cave is about a mile southwest of Spring Valley. This privately held natural attraction, formed millions of years ago by ground water eroding the sandstone and dolomite that underlies the area, has been open to tourists since 1942. A local 16-year-old discovered an opening to the cave in 1881. It was excavated, developed and promoted to the public by an Eau Claire, Wisconsin amateur geologist and advertising man. Opening day drew 4,000 visitors. The owners have retained the flavor of the 1950s and enjoy sharing the site's geologic history with visitors.

Promoted as the Midwest's largest earthen dam, Eau Galle Dam and Recreation, northwest of town, was built by the Army Corps of Engineers in 1965 to protect Spring Valley from the Eau Galle River's surging flood waters. A recreational area has grown up around the dam's reservoir, Lake George.

As of the census[3] of 2010, there were 1,352 people, 547 households, and 372 families living in the village. The population density was 326.6 inhabitants per square mile (126.1/km2). There were 597 housing units at an average density of 144.2 per square mile (55.7/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 98.4% White, 0.4% African American, 0.1% Native American, 0.3% Asian, 0.4% from other races, and 0.4% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.3% of the population.

There were 547 households, of which 35.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.9% were married couples living together, 9.3% had a female householder with no husband present, 4.8% had a male householder with no wife present, and 32.0% were non-families. 26.9% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.40 and the average family size was 2.90.

The median age in the village was 38.2 years. 25.7% of residents were under the age of 18; 5.8% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 27.2% were from 25 to 44; 27.8% were from 45 to 64; and 13.5% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the village was 49.3% male and 50.7% female.

As of the census[4] of 2000, there were 1,189 people, 459 households, and 296 families living in the village. The population density was 318.0 inhabitants per square mile (122.8/km2). There were 482 housing units at an average density of 128.9 per square mile (49.8/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 98.82% White, 0.08% African American, 0.17% Native American, 0.08% Asian, and 0.84% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.59% of the population.

There were 459 households, out of which 35.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.2% were married couples living together, 9.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.3% were non-families. 30.5% of all households were made up of individuals, and 16.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.46 and the average family size was 3.08.

In the village, the population was spread out, with 26.9% under the age of 18, 8.2% from 18 to 24, 25.7% from 25 to 44, 20.7% from 45 to 64, and 18.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 93.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 84.9 males.

The median income for a household in the village was $38,482, and the median income for a family was $45,714. Males had a median income of $35,000 versus $22,292 for females. The per capita income for the village was $17,844. About 2.4% of families and 5.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 3.9% of those under age 18 and 14.3% of those age 65 or over.
The Ministry of Culture and Communication (French: Ministère de la Culture et de la Communication) is a ministry of the Government of Haiti. This ministry is responsible for communications and is part of the Prime Minister's Cabinet.



This Haiti-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Frederik L. Schodt (born January 22, 1950) is an American translator, interpreter, and writer.

Schodt's father was in the US foreign service, and he grew up in Norway, Australia, and Japan. The family first went to Japan in 1965 when Schodt was fifteen. They left in 1967, but Schodt remained to graduate from American School in Japan in Tokyo in 1968. After entering the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB), in 1970, Schodt returned to Japan and studied Japanese intensively at International Christian University (ICU) for a year and half. He graduated from UCSB in 1972, and after a brief bohemian stint at a variety of jobs and traveling, he became a tour guide in Los Angeles for Japanese tourists, also escorting them to Canada and Mexico. After trying to interpret for a group once at Sunkist, he realized that he could become an interpreter, but needed further training. In 1975, he was awarded a scholarship from Japan's Ministry of Education, to return to ICU and study translation and interpreting. After finishing his studies at ICU in 1977, he began working in the translation department of Simul International, in Tokyo. In mid-1978, he returned to the United States, and since then has worked in San Francisco as a freelance writer, translator, and interpreter.

While working in Tokyo in 1977, he joined with several university friends in contacting Tezuka Productions. They sought permission to translate the Phoenix comic into English.[1]

Schodt is notable in manga and anime fandom for his translations of works such as Osamu Tezuka's Phoenix, Tezuka's Astro Boy, Riyoko Ikeda's The Rose of Versailles, Keiji Nakazawa's Barefoot Gen, Henry Yoshitaka Kiyama's The Four Immigrants Manga, and others.

His best known book is Manga! Manga! The World of Japanese Comics, published in 1983 and reprinted several times, with an introduction by Tezuka.

Manga! Manga! won a prize at the Manga Oscar Awards in 1983. Furthermore, in 2000 Schodt was awarded the Asahi Shimbun's Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize "Special Prize" for his outstanding contribution to the appreciation of manga worldwide.[2]

Schodt has written eight books, translated several novels and manga, and published articles and columns in such newspapers and periodicals as Mainichi Daily News, The Japan Times, Anzen, Mangajin, Japan Related, Animag, Animerica and others.
The Use of York (Latin: Eboracum) or York Rite was a liturgical use of the Roman Rite – itself a Latin liturgical rite – practised in part of northern England, prior to the reign of Henry VIII. During Henry's reign the Use of York was suppressed in favour of the Use of Sarum, developed at Salisbury Cathedral, followed by the Book of Common Prayer. "Use" denotes the special liturgical customs which prevailed in a particular diocese or group of dioceses;[1] it is one of the medieval English uses, together with the Use of Sarum, the Use of Hereford, and the Use of Bangor.

It was a received principle in medieval canon law that while judicial matters, the sacraments, and the more solemn fasts were to adhere to the custom of the Catholic Church, in the matter of church services (divina officia) each particular Church kept to its own traditions (see the Decretum Gratiani, d. 12, c. iv).[1] It should be borne in mind that in the West the entire liturgy, of whatever tradition, was in general celebrated in the Latin language, the doctrine it contained was entirely Catholic, and the overwhelming part of the prayers and practices coincided with those of the Roman Rite.

While following the Roman Rite and the Sarum Use in main form, the Use of York had a number of distinctive features.

In the celebration of Mass, before the proclamation of the Gospel the priest blessed the deacon with these words (in Latin): "May the Lord open thy mouth to read and our ears to understand God's holy Gospel of peace," whereupon the deacon answered: "Give, O Lord, a proper and well-sounding speech to my lips that my words may please Thee and may profit all who hear them for Thy name's sake unto eternal life. Amen."[1]

Moreover, at the end of the Gospel the priest said quietly (in Latin): "Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." Again, while reproducing in general the features of the Sarum offertory, the York Use required the priest to wash his hands twice: once before touching the altar bread and again after using the incense, while at the latter washing the priest prayed the words of the hymn "Veni Creator Spiritus".[1]

In response to the appeal "Orate fratres et sorores" (pray brothers and sisters) the choir replied by singing, in a low voice, the first three verses of Psalm 19, "Exaudiat te Dominus". In another departure from the Sarum custom, the priest in giving the kiss of peace at York said, "Habete vinculum" ("Retain ye the bond of charity and peace that ye may be fit for the sacred mysteries of God") instead of "Pax tibi et ecclesiae" ("Peace to thee and the Church").[1]

There were also differences in the prayers which immediately preceded the receiving of Holy Communion, and the formulae used in the actual reception of the Sacrament by the priest were again peculiar to York. Further, the number of sequences retained in the York Missal considerably exceeded that of those printed in the Sarum book. A list is given by Walter Frere in the Jour. Theol. Stud., II, 583. Some metrical compositions, bearing a resemblance to the Carmelite "O Flos Carmeli", figure among the offertories (see Frere, loc. Cit., 585.).[1]

In the breviary, York employed a larger number of proper hymns than Sarum. There were also a number of minor variations from what was practised both by Sarum and Rome.  A careful comparison of the psalms, antiphons, responsories and lessons prescribed respectively by Rome, Sarum, and York for such a festival as that of St. Lawrence reveals a general and often close resemblance; yet, there were many slight divergences.[1] Thus in the first Vespers the psalms used both at York and Sarum were the ferial psalms (as against the Roman usage), but York retained the ferial antiphons while Sarum had proper antiphons. So the capitulum was the same but the responsory following was different. Again the psalms, antiphons, and responsories at Matins were substantially the same, but they do not always occur in the same order. Both at York and Sarum the first six lessons were taken from the legend of the saint of the day, but were differently worded and arranged. The most singular feature, and one common to both Sarum and York on St. Lawrence and one or two other festivals (notably that of the Conversion of St. Paul and the Feast of the Holy Trinity) was the use of antiphons with versicles attached to each. This feature is called in the Aurea Legenda "regressio antiphonarum" and in Caxton's translation "the reprysyng of the anthemys". 

The contents of the manual and the remaining service-books show other distinctive peculiarities; for example the form of troth-plighting in the York marriage-service runs:

in which may be specially noticed the absence of the words "... if the holy Church it will ordain" which are found in the Sarum Rite.[1]

Again, in the delivery of the ring, the bridegroom at York said: "With this ring I wed thee, and with this gold and silver I honour thee, and with this gift I dower thee"[1]

where again one misses the familiar "with my body I thee worship", a retention which may still be used in both the Catholic and Protestant marriage services in the United Kingdom.[1]

Also the York rubric prescribes: "Here let the priest ask the woman's dowry and if land be given her for her dowry then let her fall at the feet of her husband."[1]

This feature is entirely lacking in all but one or two of the Sarum books. The only other York peculiarity is the mention of the Blessed Virgin in the form for the administration of extreme unction:[1]

Naturally, York had its own liturgical calendar and special feasts; they are set out at length in Dr. Henderson's edition of the York Missal (pp. 259 sqq and especially p. 271). The Visitation was kept at York on 2 April, a date which seems to agree better with the Gospel narrative than the present Summertime observance. As for the colours of vestments, York is said to have used white for Christmas, Easter, Palm Sunday, and possibly for Whitsuntide, as well as on feasts of the Blessed Virgin, whilst black was used for Good Friday and blue for Advent and Septuagesima (see St. John Hope in "Trans. T. Paul's Eccles. Society", II, 268, and cf. I, 125).[1]
The Iapa is a right tributary of the river Bistrița in Romania.[1][2] It flows into the Bistrița in Chintinici near Roznov.[3] Its length is 24 km (15 mi) and its basin size is 75 km2 (29 sq mi).[2]



This Neamț County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

The 1986 Memphis Tigers football team represented Memphis State University (now known as the University of Memphis) in the 1986 NCAA Division I-A football season. The team was led by head coach Charlie Bailey.  The Tigers played their home games at the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium.

[12][13][14]
The original soundtrack to the 1967 film Camelot was released by Warner Bros. Records.

Billboard reviewed the album in its issue from 28 October 1967, writing: "Camelot could be one of the big pictures of the year, and the track album should ride right along with the box office sales. The album is well-produced".[1]

The album peaked at number 11 on the U.S. Billboard Top LPs chart for four consecutive weeks in February 1967 and continued to chart until July 1969.[3] It was certified Gold by RIAA on 17 September 1968 and Platinum on 13 October 1986.[4]

LP – Warner Bros. B 1712 (mono), BS 1712 (stereo)

^ Shipments figures based on certification alone.
The Sahel Train is an electrified, metre gauge railway and suburban rail line with trains serving Sousse and Mahdia, with a spur to Monastir, in Tunisia.[1] The 73 kilometres (45 mi) line has overhead electrification at 25 kV, 50 Hz. Including a triangular junction west of Gare Habib Bourguiba Monastir, the line is mostly double track. However, south of the large multi-platform station at Moknine, the line becomes single track with a limited number of passing loops at stations including Mahdia tourist-Zone and Téboulba.

The line's stations are, working southwards:



This Tunisia-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

In computer science, a range minimum query (RMQ) solves the problem of finding the minimal value in a sub-array of an array of comparable objects. Range minimum queries have several use cases in computer science, such as the lowest common ancestor problem and the longest common prefix problem (LCP).

Given an array  A[1 … n] of n objects taken from a totally ordered set, such as integers, the range minimum query RMQA(l,r) =arg min A[k] (with 1 ≤ l ≤ k ≤ r ≤ n) returns the position of the minimal element in the specified sub-array  A[l … r].

For example, when A = [0,5,2,5,4,3,1,6,3], then the answer to the range minimum query for the sub-array A[3 … 8] = [2,5,4,3,1,6] is 7, as A[7] = 1.

In a typical setting, the array A is static, i.e., elements are not inserted or deleted during a series of queries, and the queries to be answered on-line (i.e., the whole set of queries are not known in advance to the algorithm). In this case a suitable preprocessing of the array into a data structure ensures faster query answering. A naive solution is to precompute all possible queries, i.e. the minimum of all sub-arrays of A, and store these in an array B such that B[i, j] = min(A[i…j]); then a range min query can be solved in constant time by array lookup in B. There are Θ(n²) possible queries for a length-n array, and the answers to these can be computed in Θ(n²) time by dynamic programming.[1]

As in the solution above, answering queries in constant time will be achieved by pre-computing results. However, the array will store pre-computed range minimum queries not for every range [i, j], but only for ranges whose size is a power of two. There are O(log n) such queries for each start position i, so the size of the dynamic programming table B is O(n log n). The value of B[i, j] is the index of the minimum of the range A[i…i+2j-1]. Filling the table takes time O(n log n), with the indices of minima using the following recurrence[1][2]

After this pre-computing step, a query RMQA(l,r) can now be answered in constant time by splitting it into two separate queries: one is the pre-computed query with range from l to the largest memoized value smaller than r. The other is the query of an interval of the same length that has r as its right boundary. These intervals may overlap, but since we are trying to compute the minimum rather than, for example, the sum of the numbers in the array, this does not matter. The overall result can thus be obtained, after the linearithmic time pre-computing, in constant time: the two queries can be answered in constant time and the only thing left to do is to choose the smaller of the two results.

This solution does pre-computation in O(n) time. Its data structures use O(n) space and its data structures can be used to answer queries in logarithmic time.[2] The array is first conceptually divided into blocks of size s = ⁠log n/4⁠. Then the minimum for each block can be computed in O(n) time overall and the minima are stored in a new array.

RMQs can now be answered in logarithmic time by looking at the blocks containing the left query boundary, the right query boundary and all the blocks in between:

For example, using the array A = [0,5,2,5,4,3,1,6,3] and a block size of 3 (for illustrative purposes only) yields the minimum array A' = [0,3,1].

Using the solution above, the sub-queries inside the blocks that are not fully contained in the query still need to be answered in constant time. There are at most two of those blocks: the block containing l and the block containing r. Constant time is achieved by storing the Cartesian trees for all the blocks in the array. A few observations:

For every such tree, the possible result for all queries need to be stored. This comes down to s2 or O(log2 n) entries. This means the overall size of the table is O(n).

To look up results efficiently, the Cartesian tree (row) corresponding to a specific block must be addressable in constant time. The solution is to store the results for all trees in an array and find a unique projection from binary trees to integers to address the entries. This can be achieved by doing a breadth-first-search through the tree and adding leaf nodes so that every existing node in the Cartesian tree has exactly two children. The integer is then generated by representing every inner node as a 0-bit and every leaf as a 1-bit in a bit-word (by traversing the tree in level-order again). This leads to a size of ⁠log n/4⁠ for every tree. To enable random access in constant time to any tree, the trees not contained in the original array need to be included as well. An array with indices of ⁠log n/4⁠ bits length has size 2⁠log n/4⁠ = O(n).

RMQs are used as a tool for many tasks in exact and approximate string matching. Several applications can be found in Fischer and Heun (2007).[3]: 3 

RMQs can be used to solve the lowest common ancestor problem[1][2] and are used as a tool for many tasks in exact and approximate string matching.
The LCA query LCAS(v, w) of a rooted tree S = (V, E) and two nodes v, w ∈ V returns the deepest node u (which may be v or w) on paths from the root to both w and v.
Gabow, Bentley, and Tarjan (1984) showed that the LCA Problem can be reduced in linear time to the RMQ problem. It follows that, like the RMQ problem, the LCA problem can be solved in constant time and linear space.[3]

In the context of text indexing, RMQs can be used to find the LCP (longest common prefix), where LCPT(i, j) computes the LCP of the suffixes that start at indexes i and j in T.
To do this we first compute the suffix array A, and the inverse suffix array A−1. We then compute the LCP array H giving the LCP of adjacent suffixes in A. Once these data structures are computed, and RMQ preprocessing is complete, 
the length of the general LCP can be computed in constant time by the formula: LCP(i, j) = RMQH(A-1[i] + 1, A-1[j]), where we assume for simplicity that A-1[i] + 1 <= A-1[j] (otherwise swap).[4]
Mount Bain (66°33′S 65°26′W﻿ / ﻿66.550°S 65.433°W﻿ / -66.550; -65.433) is a mountain, 2,090 m, standing between Hopkins and Erskine Glaciers on the west coast of Graham Land. It was named by the United Kingdom Antarctic Place-Names Committee (UK-APC) in 1958 for James S. Bain of London, who specialized in the development of polar and high altitude rations, with special emphasis on plastic vacuum packaging, between 1948 and 1956.

 This article incorporates public domain material from "Mount Bain". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.  



This Loubet Coast location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Dillwynella planorbis is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Skeneidae.[2]

The genus Dillwynella is a classification of various sea snails that Dillwynella Planorbis belongs to. Being a mollusk, the normal height of the shell attains 3 mm and contains various whirls.

This marine species occurs off Japan.

This Trochoidea-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Alon Alexander Abelski (born 29 May 1989) is a German footballer who plays for Sportfreunde Baumberg.[1]

Abelski made his full debut on 17 January 2010 in a 2. Bundesliga match against FSV Frankfurt.[2]

After being released by Arminia Bielefeld in 2011, Abelski joined Hapoel Tel Aviv on trial. Abelski holds Israel citizenship.[3]

He played for Team Germany in Israel at the 2017 Maccabiah Games.[4]



This biographical article related to association football in Germany, about a midfielder born in the 1980s, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.In deep learning, pruning is the practice of removing parameters from an existing artificial neural network.[1] The goal of this process is to reduce the size (parameter count) of the neural network (and therefore the computational resources required to run it) whilst maintaining accuracy. This can be compared to the biological process of synaptic pruning which takes place in mammalian brains during development.[2]

A basic algorithm for pruning is as follows:[3][4]

Most work on neural network pruning does not remove full neurons or layers (structured pruning). Instead, it focuses on removing the most insignificant weights (unstructured pruning), namely, setting their values to zero. This can either be done globally by comparing weights from all layers in the network or locally by comparing weights in each layer separately.[5]

Different metrics can be used to measure the importance of each weight. Weight magnitude as well as combinations of weight and gradient information are commonly used metrics.[6][7][8]

Early work suggested also to change the values of non-pruned weights.[9]

Pruning can be applied at three different stages: before training, during training, or after training. When pruning is performed during or after training, additional fine-tuning epochs are typically required. Each approach involves different trade-offs between accuracy and computational cost.[5]

This artificial neural network-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

38°12′34″N 120°27′51″W﻿ / ﻿38.20944°N 120.46417°W﻿ / 38.20944; -120.46417

Sheep Ranch (formerly, Sheepranch) is an unincorporated community in Calaveras County, California. It lies at an elevation of 2359 feet (719 m).

Sheep Ranch was named after a sheep ranch.  Officially listed as "Sheep Ranch", the official post office stamp did at one time read "Sheepranch"  (Zip: 95250). One of the very few "free-range" areas in California, there are several hundred freely roaming sheep throughout the town.  Sheep Ranch is located approximately halfway between O'Neal Creek and San Antonio Creek on Sheep Ranch Road in the center of Calaveras County.

Sheepranch has a surprisingly colorful history.  The town was once surrounded by sheep corrals, and in 1860 gold ore was discovered in the corrals where the sheep were kept at night. Soon Sheepranch was a bustling gold mining town. Before the turn of the century there were five flourishing gold mines and one had a ten-stamp mill. The town also supported 15 saloons." The town was patented on August 4, 1880 by Judge Ira Hill Read.[citation needed]

The main mine in town was known as the Hearst mine.  George Hearst, who with partners bought the mine in 1897, was the father of William Randolph Hearst. The mine operated under various company names until shut down by the government in 1942.[citation needed]

At one time the town of Sheepranch held two churches, one Catholic and the other Protestant. The local red school house, which still stands as a private home, employed two teachers until 1907 when the enrollment dwindled to 30 pupils taught by one teacher. The Eagle Hotel and the Pioneer Hotel were the two prominent local establishments, but only the Pioneer Hotel still stands.[citation needed]

The first post office opened in 1877, and was renamed Sheepranch in 1895.[2]

In 2015, Sheep Ranch was spared by the Butte Fire by a margin of a quarter mile.

The population of Sheep Ranch is fewer than one hundred people, with sheep well out-numbering humans.[citation needed] There are currently no active businesses in Sheep Ranch, with the nearest facilities being located in Mountain Ranch to the west, and in Avery to the east. In January 2008, the postal service contractor in town relocated, resulting in the town having its ZIP code archived (i.e., made "not usable") by the U.S. Postal Service. Locals can still use the town name, but must use the ZIP code for nearby Mountain Ranch (95246).

The United States Census Bureau defined Sheep Ranch as a census designated place (CDP) in 2023.[3]
The 2018 Belgian Super Cup was a football match that took place on 22 July 2018, between the 2017–18 Belgian First Division A winners Club Brugge and Standard Liège, the winners of the 2017–18 Belgian Cup. Club Brugge won the match 2–1. For Club Brugge, the victory meant a record 15th Super Cup. Standard Liège featured for the ninth time. The match was a repetition of the 2016 Belgian Super Cup, when Club Brugge also beat Standard 2–1.

Match rules


DramaQueen is a Houston-based English-language publisher of domestic, Japanese, Korean, and Taiwanese comics founded in 2005.[1] DramaQueen also publishes an original English-language yaoi anthology called Rush, which made its debut in 2006.[2] RUSH ceased publishing when the company experienced financial issues and were uncommunicative with the creators involved in the project.[3][4][5] In March 2010, after a four-year hiatus from publishing, during which time the company lost some of its Japanese licenses,[6] Dramaqueen released the BL manhwa The Summit by Lee Young-hee.[7][8]
On their forums, CEO Tran Nguyen indicated RUSH would return in a new format in 2011.[9]



This anime-related organisation article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.
This Manhwa-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.
This Manhua-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

The Micronesian ambassador in Beijing is the official representative of the government in Palikir to the Government of China.

39°54′34″N 116°26′16″E﻿ / ﻿39.909454°N 116.437905°E﻿ / 39.909454; 116.437905

[2]
A muzzleloader is any firearm in which the user loads the  projectile and the propellant charge into the muzzle end of the gun (i.e., from the forward, open end of the gun's barrel). This is distinct from the modern designs of breech-loading firearms, in which user loads the ammunition into the breech end of the barrel. The term "muzzleloader" applies to both rifled and smoothbore type muzzleloaders, and may also refer to the marksman who specializes in the shooting of such firearms. The firing methods, paraphernalia and mechanism further divide both categories as do caliber (from cannons to small-caliber palm guns).

Modern muzzleloading firearms range from reproductions of sidelock, flintlock and percussion long guns, to in-line rifles that use modern inventions such as a closed breech, sealed primer and fast rifling to allow for considerable accuracy at long ranges.

Modern mortars use a shell with the propelling charge and primer attached at the base.  Unlike older muzzleloading mortars, which were loaded the same way as muzzleloading cannon, the modern mortar is fired by dropping the shell down the barrel where a pin fires the primer, igniting the main propelling charge.  Both the modern mortar and the older mortar were used for high angle fire.  However, the fact that the mortar is not loaded in separate steps may make its definition as a muzzleloader a matter of opinion.

Muzzleloading can apply to anything from cannons to pistols but in modern parlance the term most commonly applies to black powder small arms. It usually, but not always, involves the use of a loose propellant (i.e., gunpowder) and projectile, as well as a separate method of ignition or priming.

In general, the sequence of loading is to put in first gunpowder, by pouring in a measured amount of loose powder, historically mostly by using a powder flask (or powder horn), or by inserting a pre-measured bag or paper packet of gunpowder (called a cartridge) or by inserting solid propellant pellets. The gunpowder used is typically black powder or black powder substitutes like Pyrodex. Sometimes two types of gunpowder (and two flasks) were used consisting of finer priming powder for the flash pan and coarser powder for the main charge behind the ball. This was particularly the case with earlier muzzleloaders like matchlocks but appear to have been less common with flintlocks and was irrelevant with percussion locks since they used percussion caps rather than priming powder.

Wadding is made from felt, paper, cloth or card and has several different uses. In shotguns, a card wad or other secure wadding is used between the powder and the shot charge to prevent pellets from dropping into the powder charge and on top of the shot charge to hold it in place in the barrel. In smooth bore muskets and most rifles used prior to cartridges being introduced in the mid-to late nineteenth century, wadding was used primarily to hold the powder in place.

On most naval cannons, one piece of wadding was used to hold the powder in place and served the purpose of creating a better seal around the shot. Another was used to act as a plug to stop the shot rolling out because of the swaying of the ship.

The use of cartridges with both gunpowder charge and ball, made up in batches by the shooter or a servant, was known from very early on, but until roughly around 1800 loading using a powder flask and a bag of balls was more common outside of the military. The measuring stage for the barrel charge of gunpowder could be avoided by carrying a number of pre-measured charges in small containers of wood, metal or cloth, often carried on a bandolier.  These were known by various names, including "chargers" or "apostles" as 12 were often carried.  For most of the time muzzleloaders were in use, a round ball and pre-measured powder charge could be carried in a paper or cloth wrapping.  The shooter would bite off the end of the paper cartridge with his teeth and pour the powder into the barrel followed by the ball encased in the paper wrapping.

The projectiles and wads were then pushed down into the breech with a ramrod until they were firmly seated on the propellant charge.  Priming powder could be carried in a separate priming flask and poured into the priming pan or a little powder from the cartridge was used, and the frizzen was pushed down to hold the priming powder in place. After the gunpowder and projectile or shot charge were placed in the barrel a ramrod was used to firmly pack everything down at the base of the barrel.  Then either a priming charge was placed in the priming pan or a percussion cap was placed on the nipple, the firing mechanism initiated; the cock or hammer was then cocked to make the firearm ready to fire.

Muzzleloading firearms generally use round balls, cylindrical conical projectiles, and shot charges.

In some types of rifles firing round ball, a lubricated patch (see Kentucky rifle) of fabric is wrapped around a ball which is slightly smaller than the barrel diameter.  In other types of round ball firing rifles, a ramrod and hammer is used to force the round ball down through the rifling.  When fired, either the lead ball or the wrapping grips the rifling and imparts spin to the ball which usually gives improved accuracy. In rifles firing Minié balls, the patch, often the paper wrapping from the cartridge, is used as an initial seal and to hold powder in place during loading.

The Minié ball replaced the round ball in most firearms, especially for military use, in the 1840s and 1850s[citation needed].  It has a hollow base which expands to grip the rifling.  The combination of the spinning Minié ball and the consistent velocity provided by the improved seal gave far better accuracy than the smoothbore muzzleloaders that it replaced.

When aiming for great accuracy, muzzle-loaders are usually cleaned ("swabbed") before reloading, so that there is no residue left in the barrel to reduce accuracy, though in competitions run by the international governing body, the MLAIC, this is prohibited for military rifle and musket events. However, in small arms muzzleloading rifles, swabbing is only done after every 5-10 shots.  Large caliber muzzle-loaders such as cannons are always swabbed between shots to prevent accidents caused by live sparks igniting the fresh charge of powder as it is being loaded.

Muzzleloading is the sport or pastime of firing muzzleloading guns. Muzzleloading guns, both antique and reproduction, are used for target shooting, hunting, historical re-enactment and historical research. The sport originated in the United States in the 1930s, just as the last original users and makers of muzzleloading arms were dying out. The sport received a tremendous boost in the 1960s and 1970s. The Muzzle Loaders Associations International Committee (www.MLAIC.org) was formed in 1970 and held its first World Championship in 1971. Since then a flourishing industry manufacturing working reproductions of historic firearms now exists in the United States and Europe, particularly in northern Italy, for example at Gardone Val Trompia, in the Province of Brescia. In the United States muzzleloading guns are, subject to a number of qualifications, generally not considered firearms. Subject to state law they may be possessed by persons who might otherwise not be legally allowed to own a firearm.[2]

The American National Muzzle Loading Rifle Association holds two national tournaments a year in Friendship, Indiana as well as the Western National Shoot Event held in Phoenix, Arizona.

The Muzzle Loaders Associations International Committee (MLAIC) governs international competition with muzzle-loading arms.  The MLAIC holds a Short Range World Championship in even-numbered years and a Long Range World Championship (300–1,000 yd (270–910 m)) on odd numbered years (South Africa has won the last 5 Long Range World Championships).

Driven by demand for muzzleloaders for special extended primitive hunting seasons, firearms manufacturers have developed in-line muzzleloading rifles with designs similar to modern breech-loading centerfire designs.[3] Knight Rifles pioneered the in-line muzzleloader in the mid-1980s, manufacturing and selling them to this day.[4] Savage Arms has created the 10ML-II, which can be used with smokeless powder, reducing the cleaning required.[5] However, Savage has discontinued the production of smokeless muzzleloaders. Remington Firearms also have a muzzleloader in production, the model "700 Ultimate" or "700 SL Ultimate". There are several custom gun makers that are currently building smokeless muzzleloaders on new or donor bolt actions.[6] American Gun Craft have released the ROTO 12 shotgun that uses black powder.[7]

An unusual reverse chamber has been used on firearms such as the Burnside carbine, Rikhter R-23 and T168 autocannons.
The MV Chelan is an Issaquah-class ferry operated by Washington State Ferries, completed and in service in 1981. In 2004, the vessel was refit with a second vehicle deck, and in 2005 was refit with safety equipment to meet the requirements of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), allowing the Chelan to make international trips on the Anacortes–San Juan Islands–Sidney, British Columbia route. As of April 2020[update] the Chelan is the only vessel in the Washington State Ferries fleet that meets SOLAS standards.

The Chelan was built in 1981, as an Issaquah-class ferry, for service on the Edmonds–Kingston ferry route.  In the early 1990s, ridership on the Edmonds–Kingston route had grown to the extent that the Chelan could not handle capacity, and she was replaced on this route by a second Super-class ferry.

The Chelan was kept in reserve to serve as a replacement ferry.  On many of the routes she would serve, she would replace an Issaquah-class ferry that had been refit with a second vehicle deck, and the Chelan would cause service disruptions by carrying fewer vehicles.  

In 2004, she was refit, much like her sister ships to include a second vehicle deck along the outer bulkheads.  

After changes in United States Coast Guard rules for international travel, the Chelan was upgraded in 2005 safety equipment to meet the requirements of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). She is currently the only vessel in the WSF fleet to meet these standards, making it the only ship that can make the international crossing to Sidney, British Columbia. The safety equipment requirements of SOLAS limit the Chelan to 1,090 passengers when making international trips, as opposed to the 1,200 she can carry on domestic crossings. During the SOLAS refit, the interior of the Chelan was also updated to match the other Issaquah-class ferries, with one notable addition, the Chelan also has a small duty-free shop onboard.

Because of her SOLAS capability, the Chelan serves the Anacortes–San Juan Islands–Sidney, BC route during spring, summer and fall, and typically stays on the domestic service between Anacortes and the San Juan Islands during the winter.



This ferry article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.The Golden Hawks were a  Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) aerobatic flying team established in 1959 to celebrate the 35th anniversary of the RCAF and the "Golden" 50th anniversary of Canadian flight, which began with the AEA Silver Dart in 1909.

Initially, a six-plane team was envisioned as performing for only one year with the Canadair Sabre 5. The Golden Hawks originally had eight pilots led by Squadron Leader Fern Villeneuve, but the Golden Hawks were so popular after their 1959 show season that the team was re-established for 1960. The team, under the command of W/C Jack Allan, and the lead of S/L Villeneuve, included pilots: F/L James McCombe, F/L Edward Rozdeba, F/L Jeb Kerr, F/L Ralph Annis, F/L Sam Eisler, F/O Jim Holt and F/O William (Bill) Stewart.[1]

In 1961, F/L McCombe became the leader of the team, as Villeneuve left the team when he married.[2][N 1] Two deaths altered the makeup of the team: F/O John T. Price joined the Hawks in 1959 after F/O Eisler died, and served as second solo.[3] When F/L Kerr died in a crash in Calgary, F/O John T. Price moved to lead solo.

F/O Stewart's routine as lead solo was often the one most remembered since his low-level aerobatics looked to the crowd to be particularly dangerous.[4] The Golden Hawks continued performing for three more seasons until they were disbanded, ostensibly for financial reasons, on February 7, 1964, having flown a total of 317 shows across North America.

Not only did the team perform standard loops and rolls in very tight formation, they also introduced their own trademark maneuvers. The Golden Hawks pioneered a two-aircraft head-on coordinated solo program which virtually every military team since has adopted in various ways. They also invented the Card 5 Maneuver, where five aircraft fly in a card formation, two up front, one in the middle, two in the back. They also created the Coordinated Two Aircraft 360, where two aircraft fly in opposite directions at low level at about 350 miles per hour (560 km/h), at about seven gravities, in a horizontal circle and pass each other on both sides of the circle.

The legacy of the Golden Hawks lives on with the Canadian Forces Snowbirds.[5]

Original Golden Hawks aircraft are found in several locations including Canadair Sabre 6 #23651 on display at the Canadian Warplane Heritage Museum in Mount Hope, Ontario.[7] The original Golden Hawks Sabre 6 is on loan from the Canada Aviation and Space Museum, and is displayed with Plexiglas panels on the port side.[N 2] The National Air Force Museum of Canada has a Golden Hawks Canadair Sabre 6 (#23641) that was formerly mounted on a pylon at CFB Mountainview and is now on display at CFB Trenton, Ontario.[8] Canadian Sabre 5 #23355 that was flown by the Golden Hawks is on display at the Atlantic Canada Aviation Museum in Halifax, Nova Scotia, after being originally dedicated in 1986 as a gate guardian at the former CFB Chatham, and ultimately restored at the museum.[N 3][9] A Canadair Sabre 6 painted as (#23042) that flew with the Golden Hawks is also on display at the Technik Museum Speyer in Speyer (Rhineland-Palatinate), Germany.[10]

In 2009, Canadair T-33 "133500" Golden Hawk Support Aircraft was acquired by the Jet Aircraft Museum.[11]

Golden Hawks aircraft serial number 23053 resides at Zwick’s Park in Belleville, Ontario.[12]

A Golden Hawk, recently re-furbished aircraft, can be found at the waterfront in Brockville, ON.

Serial number 23164 resides at Germain Park in Sarnia, Ontario, and was refurbished in 2014.[13]

In Oakville, Ontario, 540 Golden Hawks Royal Canadian Air Cadet Squadron is named for the air demonstration team.[14] After their formation in 1951, the squadron chose to petition the Canadian federal government in 1964 to assume the RCAF unit's name and identity as its own. The Department of National Defence granted permission in 1968 and since that time, 540 RCAC Squadron "has been proud to officially carry the Golden Hawks name."[15]

At the former home base for the team, the Junior A hockey team in Trenton, Ontario, takes its name from the Golden Hawks. The symbol of the team features a Sabre jet outlined in gold.[16] Similarly, the Chatham-Kent Secondary School sport teams in southern Ontario all take the name Golden Hawks.[17]

In 2009, Hawk One, a fully refurbished Canadair Sabre 5 (#23314) in Golden Hawk colours owned by Vintage Wings of Canada, helped to celebrate the Centennial of Flight in Canada.[18]


Radio Edits 1, or simply Edits, was a remix album by American sludge metal band Acid Bath, released in September 1994 to radio stations only for promotional purposes. This album was not available to the general public and was an attempt to get the band more exposure. The four songs on this album were the most popular from the band's first full album, When the Kite String Pops, that were remixed and cleaned up to make them suitable for airing on the radio. Three of the tracks are variations of the song, "The Bones of Baby Dolls".

Similarly to how their debut album contained art from serial killer/rapist, John Wayne Gacy, the album artwork was done by another prominent serial killer/rapist, Richard Ramirez, which attracted controversy at the time.[1]

All music and lyrics by Acid Bath.
Galileo Ferraris was the name of at least two ships of the Italian Navy and may refer to:
Pustkowie Lgockie [pustˈkɔvjɛ ˈlɡɔt͡skʲɛ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Koziegłowy, within Myszków County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland.[1]

This Myszków County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Shirley Frimpong-Manso, (born March 16, 1977 in Kwahu East District) is a Ghanaian film director, writer, and producer. She is the founder and CEO of Sparrow Productions, a film, television and advertising production company.[1] She won Best Director at the 6th Africa Movie Academy Awards.[2] Frimpong-Manso is also a principal of Sparrow Station, a video streaming service for African entertainment from Sparrow and other African film producers.[3] In 2013, she was ranked the 48th most influential person in Ghana according to E.tv Ghana.[4]

Frimpong-Manso is from Kwahu Pepease in the Eastern Region of Ghana. As a child she organized plays, which "felt a lot more fun than playing with sand and dolls".[1] She graduated in 2000 from the National Film and Television Institute popularly known as NAFTI in Ghana and worked as a presenter at Radio Gold, a private station in Accra, and then went on to start Sparrow Productions in 2003.[1]

She is the founder and CEO of Sparrow Productions, a film, television and advertising production company.[1] She won Best Director at the 6th Africa Movie Academy Awards.[2] Frimpong-Manso is also a principal of Sparrow Station, a video streaming service for African entertainment from Sparrow and other African film producers.[3] In 2013, she was ranked the 48th most influential person in Ghana according to E.tv Ghana.[4]

Frimpong-Manso is described as one who "seeks to raise the standard of film production in Ghana and Africa by telling progressive African stories as seen through the eyes of Africans."[1] Changing the way Ghana was portrayed also motivated her career choice.[5] Her films are also known for their "fierce female leads,"[6] as they portray African women with agency who can be breadwinners and lead complex lives.[6][7] In December 2019, her movie Potato Potahto started streaming on Netflix.[8] Frimpong Manso launched her Sparrow Station YouTube channel in March 2025.[9]

Her husband and business partner is Ken Attoh, and they have a child together.[10]

With producer and actress Juliet Asante, Frimpong-Manso helped produce the TV show Heart to Heart for two years shortly after school. She has also produced:[1]

TV3

Africa Magic

Africa Magic

Africa Magic

Africa Magic


The Priory Church of St Mary and St Hardulph is the Church of England parish church of Breedon on the Hill, Leicestershire, England. The church has also been known as Breedon Priory.

The present church, which had been preceded by a minster (an Anglo-Saxon monastery) from the 7th century, contains the largest collection, and some of the finest examples, of Anglo-Saxon sculptures. It also contains a notable family pew and Renaissance-era church monuments to the Shirley family, who bought the manor of Breedon after it was surrendered to the Crown in 1539 during the Dissolution of the Monasteries. The largest of these monuments is for Sir George Shirley. It was made over 20 years before his death and includes a life-sized skeleton carved in alabaster.[1]

The church stands on the top of Breedon Hill, within the remains of an Iron Age hill fort called The Bulwarks. The hill is flanked to the south by the 400 houses of Breedon on the Hill village, and encroached on the east by Breedon Quarry.[2] Breedon church is a nationally important building, with a Grade I listing for its exceptional architectural interest.

A minster (an Anglo-Saxon monastery) was founded in about 675 on the site of an Iron Age hill fort known as the Bulwarks. Consent was given by King Æthelred of Mercia, third son of Penda of Mercia (who ruled until 704 according to the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle).[3] The land was given by the princeps Frithuric (Latin Frethericus) with the stipulation that Hædda would be made the abbot.[4] Frithuric is a candidate for the four saints who may have been buried here. The site of the Anglo-Saxon church, buildings and cemetery has never been fully determined but has probably now been lost to twentieth-century quarrying.

The Peterborough Chronicle of Hugh Candidus[5] records that four saints were buried at Breedon-on-the-Hill - St Ærdulf (said in that document to be a king) and monks St Cotta, St Benna and St Fretheric.[6][7]

Hædda was to become a Bishop of Lichfield and later the minster trained Tatwine, known for his rhyming riddles and for his later ascension to be Archbishop of Canterbury from 731 until his death in 734.[3][8][9] The lands that supported the minster were added to by Frithuric and by a purchase from King Æthelred of Mercia.[4][10] By the time of the Domesday Book in 1086 most of these lands were no longer held by the minster, and the manors surrounding Breedon had been given by William the Conqueror to the de Ferrers family, who later became the Earls of Derby, under the vill name of Tonge ('Tunge cum omnibus appendiciis'). The book records that the tenant-in-chief was Henry de Ferrers.[11]

Breedon priory was founded as an Augustinian house in around 1120, on the site of the Iron Age hillfort, like the earlier Anglo-Saxon minster. The priory was a cell of Nostell Priory in Yorkshire and there seems to have been between three and five canons in residence at any one time, usually from Nostell. Candidates for Prior were also usually selected by Nostell.[12] Gervase, a prior of Breedon, attempted to gain independence for the priory from Nostell, but failed and subsequently resigned in 1244.[10]

In 1441 a visit from William Alnwick, Bishop of Lincoln (Leicestershire was historically within the Diocese of Lincoln), found the monastery to be dilapidated and in debt. By 1535 there was no resident community at the priory, which was now occupied only by the prior. The Valor Ecclesiasticus of 1535 recorded the priory had an annual income, after expenses, of £24. 10s. 4d.[12]

The priory was surrendered for dissolution in November 1539.[12] It was later sold to Francis Shirley, head of the local manorial family, who were recusants.[10] After the Dissolution, the eastern part of the priory with the formerly central tower was retained for parish use. The nave and other buildings were later demolished.

The church has been a Grade I listed building since 1962, which categorises it as a building of exceptional interest.[13]

The church contains a series of important Saxon relief sculpture, some of which may be amongst the earliest to survive in England. These carvings came from the original Saxon abbey church. They are not the earliest finds as Neolithic artefacts have also been found on the hill.[14]

Around the church are many early carvings which are frequently included as stones in the interior walls. However they are wrapped in lead sheet as though they are not intended to be structural. The carvings are dated to the 9th century and include Celtic patterns, lions, people, cocks and other birds that are pecking at vines.[2]

The church contains many 16th and 17th century tombs of the Shirley family which bought the monastery site. There are two substantial tomb chests carved from Chellaston alabaster. The oldest chest tomb is for Francis Shirley and his wife. Around the chest are carved mourners arranged in pairs. This tomb is dated 1571. The other, similar tomb is for John Shirley and his wife, and is dated 1585. Both of these tombs were made by Richard and Gabriel Royley of Burton upon Trent.[15]

The tomb of Sir Francis Shirley was repaired after 60 years by his great-grandson, Thomas Shirley. The latter recorded that even after 60 years, Francis' body was well preserved, with only a black mark apparent on one of his toes but with no sign of rot. His body was re-wrapped in material and returned to his tomb.[1]

Three substantial tombs were constructed to memorialize Sir George Shirley, his father John, and his grandfather Thomas. By far the largest monument dominating the inside of the church is that dedicated to Sir George Shirley. It was made over 20 years before Shirley died in 1622. It is dated 1598 and consists of three storeys. On the bottom storey is a realistic skeleton carved from alabaster and showing the mortality of those portrayed above. The inclusion of this cadaver in the design was unusual for the time.[1]

The second storey is supported on six pillars and the space is divided into two arched spaces. To the right and facing right in prayer is Sir George Shirley with his two sons behind him. All three figures are dressed in brightly painted period dress and the clothes include details in gold. In the left arch is his wife (d. 1595), daughter, and two babies.[15] According to the Latin inscription, Shirley's wife died aged 29 whilst giving birth.

The third storey, again supported by six more pillars, is a canopy made in stone and incorporating a large, central, carved coat of arms. The monument was constructed from large blocks of alabaster. It was rebuilt in the 19th century by the stonemason Thomas Allt, who added his signature to the work.[10]

The Shirley family pew was carved in 1627.[1] The rest of the box pews date from the 18th century.[2] The Shirley family pew now sits to the left of the main monument in the north aisle. In the past this wooden structure was said to be in the main body of the church. It is appropriate that it is now in the vaulted north aisle, as this entire aisle was in the separate ownership of the Shirley family until the 1950s.

The churchyard contains one war grave, of a soldier of the Machine Gun Corps of World War I.[16]

St Hardulf has been claimed to be King Eardwulf of Northumbria. The connection has been made by several historians. The suggestion is based on a 12th-century list of the burial places of saints compiled at Peterborough.[5] This calls the Saint Hardulph to whom Breedon was dedicated "Ærdulfus rex"— Ærdulf the king — and states that he was buried at Breedon.[17][18] Others do not make this connection with the Northumbrian king[19] but make a connection between a holy man (but not identified as a king) Hardulf, of Breedon, and St Modwenna of nearby Burton on Trent, as recorded by the early twelfth-century Abbot Geoffrey.[20]

Breedon parish is in the Deanery of North West Leicestershire, the Diocese of Leicester and the Province of Canterbury.[21] It is part of the Ashby and Breedon Team Ministry now renamed the Flagstaff Family of Churches which comprises the following churches:[22]
Pettah Power Station was a thermal power station in Colombo in south western Ceylon. 

Pettah Power Station opened in 1898 and was located on Gasworks Street in the Pettah area of central Colombo.[1][2] It was Ceylon's second power station after the one on Bristol Street in the Fort area.[3] It was acquired by the Colombo Electric Tramways and Lighting Company (CETLC) after the company was formed in 1902.[4] CETLC was bought by the government in 1928 and its operations transferred to the Department of Government Electrical Undertakings (DGEU).[4] One more 3 MW steam turbine was added in the 1930s.[4] Three 1 MW diesel generator sets were added during World War II.[4]

In 1956 the station's generating capacity stood at 9 MW (one 3 MW steam unit and three 2 MW Mirlees diesel units).[5] Six 2 MW Mirlees diesel units were installed in 1957.[5] In 1959 the station's generating capacity stood at 16 MW (one 3 MW steam unit, three 1 MW diesel units and five 2 MW diesel units).[6]

By the early 1960s the station's generating capacity stood at 18 MW (one 3 MW steam unit, three 1 MW diesel units and six 2 MW diesel units) but its effective generating capacity stood at 14.5 MW.[7] 4 MW of diesel units were transferred to Chunnakam Power Station.[8] In 1969 the station's generating capacity stood at 16 MW.[9]

By the early 1980s the station's generating capacity stood at 6 MW (three 2 MW diesel units from the 1950s) and, although each unit was capable of 1.8 MW output, they were only operating at 1.5 MW each.[10]




Rodrigo José Carbone (born 17 March 1974) is a Brazilian former professional footballer who played as a forward.

ŁKS Łódź



This biographical article related to a Brazilian association football forward born in the 1970s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Rob Voerman (born May 6, 1966, Deventer) is a Dutch graphic artist, sculptor and installation artist. His works generally show futuristic architectural constructions in a post-apocalyptic world full of destruction, explosions and the remains of conflict and catastrophe.

Voerman studied at the CABK in Kampen which is now ArtEZ Art & Design in Zwolle (1990–1996). In 2001 Voerman applied to join Worldviews, an art in residence programme in New York City. The programme used studios at the top of one of the World Trade Center towers-studios with a spectacular of the city. The programme though never started because of the attacks of September 11, 2001. In the following year Voerman made the work Worldviews which referred to 9/11 and the idea of this residency that never happened.

Architecture, instability and deconstruction are central themes in the two-dimensional work and sculptures of Rob Voerman. His works are defined by a dialogue between the forms of old archaic appearances of the farmers-life and the modern technically developed society. The improvised constructions of his works reminds one of the anonymous architecture of sheds as can be seen on small farms and in gardens. Modern architecture was partially transformed and integrated by this archaic way of building. In his own words Voerman tries "to create the architecture of fictive communities living in remote areas or occupying existing citylandscapes. The communities will consist of a mixture of utopia, destruction and beauty."[1]

Voermans three-dimensional works are made of many different materials such as cardboard, glass, plexiglass, and wood. The sculptures recall the memory of a primitive hut but at the same time the technological achievements of the machine age.  In Voermans sculptures different typologies of architecture, furniture and machines blend together. An example is Moonshine (2006), which is a table but at the same time a maquette of a ruined flatbuilding. The work also functions as a bar and a smoking area. A bar full of alcoholic drinks is built into the table and there is an ashtray mounted in it too.[2]

There have been exhibitions of Voermans work in Amsterdam, London, New York, Los Angeles, Berlin, Bregenz and Newcastle upon Tyne. His work has been presented in several groupshows in Belgium, Germany, the United States, Great Britain, Denmark, Taiwan, Canada and the Netherlands. In 2010 Voermans sculptures and drawings were presented in a major survey exhibition at the Cobra Museum in Amstelveen.

Recent exhibitions, projects and fairs:

Rob Voerman's work is displayed in numerous public collections, including the:


Henry Lloyd-Hughes (born 11 August 1985) is an English actor. His credits include Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005), Unrelated (2007), The Inbetweeners (2008–2010), Miliband of Brothers (2010), Weekender (2011), Anna Karenina (2012), Parade's End (2012), Indian Summers (2015), Les Misérables (2018),  Killing Eve (2019), The English Game (2020), Ragdoll (2021) and The Irregulars (2021).

Henry Alexander Lloyd-Hughes[1] was born in London,[1] the son of actress Lucy Appleby (A Stitch in Time) and Timothy Lloyd-Hughes, who worked for Deutsche Bank. He was educated at St Paul's School, London and has two younger brothers, record executive Theo Lloyd-Hughes and actor Ben Lloyd-Hughes. Both Henry and Ben acted in Miliband of Brothers. Fred Macpherson, lead singer of the band Spector, and formerly of Les Incompétents and Ox.Eagle.Lion.Man, is his cousin.[2]

Lloyd-Hughes first appeared in the TV series Murphy's Law (2004) before playing Roger Davies in the 2005 film Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005).[3][4] He appeared alongside Tom Hiddleston in Joanna Hogg's film Unrelated in 2007.[1]

From 2008 to 2010 he played school bully Mark Donovan in the British sitcom The Inbetweeners.[3] He reprised the role in the film The Inbetweeners Movie in 2011.[1] In 2010, he portrayed former British Labour Party politician David Miliband in the TV film documentary Miliband of Brothers.[3]

In 2011, he starred in the film Dimensions as Stephen, a brilliant young scientist who lives in England in the 1920s.[5]

In the 2012 epic romantic drama film Anna Karenina, he played Burisov alongside Keira Knightley and Aaron Taylor-Johnson.[6] In 2013, he starred in the film Hello Carter with Jodie Whittaker.[3]

Lloyd-Hughes played Charles Bovary in the drama film Madame Bovary with Mia Wasikowska in the title role and which was released in 2014.[3][7]

In 2021, he appeared as Sherlock Holmes in the Netflix series, The Irregulars. 

Lloyd-Hughes has appeared in numerous theatre productions, including Rope, The Miracle, Punk Rock, and The Changeling.[4][8]

In 2012, he starred as Dimitri Mitropoulos in the play Posh, which played at the Duke of York's Theatre.[4] Michael Billington of The Guardian said of Lloyd-Hughes's performance that he "impresses as a wealthy Greek who aims to be more English than the English".[9]

Hughes and his family are all supporters of west London football club Queens Park Rangers.[10]
The endocrine system is a network of glands and organs located throughout the body. Along with the nervous system, it makes the neuroendocrine system, which controls and regulates many of the body's functions. Endocrine glands are ductless glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products, hormones, directly into the blood. The major glands of the endocrine system include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testicles, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus and adrenal glands. The hypothalamus and pituitary glands are neuroendocrine organs.[1]

The pituitary gland hangs from the base of the brain by the pituitary stalk, and is enclosed by bone. It consists of a hormone-producing glandular portion of the anterior pituitary and a neural portion of the posterior pituitary, which is an extension of the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus regulates the hormonal output of the anterior pituitary and creates two hormones that it exports to the posterior pituitary for storage and later release.

Four of the six anterior pituitary hormones are tropic hormones that regulate the function of other endocrine organs. Most anterior pituitary hormones exhibit a diurnal rhythm of release, which is subject to modification by stimuli influencing the hypothalamus.

Somatotropic hormone or growth hormone (GH) is an anabolic hormone that stimulates the growth of all body tissues especially skeletal muscle and bone. It may act directly, or indirectly via insulin-like growth factors (IGFs). GH mobilizes fats, stimulates protein synthesis, and inhibits glucose uptake and metabolism. Secretion is regulated by growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) and growth hormone-inhibiting hormone (GHIH), or somatostatin. Hypersecretion causes gigantism in children and acromegaly in adults; hyposecretion in children causes pituitary dwarfism.

Thyroid-stimulating hormone promotes normal development and activity of the thyroid gland. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone stimulates its release; negative feedback of thyroid hormone inhibits it.

Adrenocorticotropic hormone stimulates the adrenal cortex to release corticosteroids. Adrenocorticotropic hormone release is triggered by corticotropin-releasing hormone and inhibited by rising glucocorticoid levels.

The gonadotropins—follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone regulate the functions of the gonads in both sexes. Follicle-stimulating hormone stimulates sex cell production; luteinizing hormone stimulates gonadal hormone production. Gonadotropin levels rise in response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone. Negative feedback of gonadal hormones inhibits gonadotropin release.

Prolactin promotes milk production in human females. Its secretion is prompted by prolactin-releasing hormone and inhibited by prolactin-inhibiting hormone.

The intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland secretes only one enzyme that is melanocyte stimulating hormone. It is linked with the formation of the black pigment in our skin called melanin.

The neurohypophysis stores and releases two hypothalamic hormones:

The thyroid gland is located in the front of the neck, in front of the thyroid cartilage, and is shaped like a butterfly, with two wings connected by a central isthmus. Thyroid tissue consists of follicles with a stored protein called colloid, containing thyroglobulin, a precursor to other thyroid hormones, which are manufactured within the colloid.

The thyroid hormones increase the rate of cellular metabolism, and include thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Secretion is stimulated by the thyroid-stimulating hormone, secreted by the anterior pituitary. When thyroid levels are high, there is negative feedback that decreases the amount of Thyroid-stimulating hormone secreted. Most T4 is converted to T3 (a more active form) in the target tissues.

Calcitonin, produced by the parafollicular cells (C cells) of the thyroid gland in response to rising blood calcium levels, depresses blood calcium levels by inhibiting bone matrix resorption and enhancing calcium deposit in bones.
Excessive secretion cause hyperthyroidism and deficiency cause hypothyroidism.

The parathyroid glands, of which there are 4–6, are found on the back of the thyroid glands, and secrete parathyroid hormone.[2] This causes an increase in blood calcium levels by targeting bone, the intestine, and the kidneys. The parathyroid hormone is the antagonist of calcitonin. Parathyroid hormone release is triggered by falling blood calcium levels and is inhibited by rising blood calcium levels.

The adrenal glands are located above the kidneys in humans and
in front of the kidneys in other animals. The adrenal glands produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone cortisol and Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA).[3] Adrenaline increases blood pressure, heart rate, and metabolism in reaction to stress, the aldosterone controls the body's salt and water balance, the cortisol plays a role in stress response and the dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA) produces aids in production of body odor and growth of body hair during puberty.

The pancreas, located in the abdomen, below and behind the stomach, is both an exocrine and an endocrine gland. The alpha and beta cells are the endocrine cells in the pancreatic islets that release insulin and glucagon and smaller amounts of other hormones into the blood. Insulin and glucagon influence blood sugar levels. Glucagon is released when the blood glucose level is low and stimulates the liver to release glucose into the blood. Insulin increases the rate of glucose uptake and metabolism by most body cells.

Somatostatin is released by delta cells and acts as an inhibitor of GH, insulin, and glucagon.

The ovaries of the female, located in the pelvic cavity, release two main hormones. Secretion of estrogens by the ovarian follicles begins at puberty under the influence of follicle-stimulating hormone. Estrogens stimulate the maturation of the female reproductive system and the development of secondary sexual characteristics. Progesterone is released in response to high blood levels of luteinizing hormone. It works with estrogens in establishing the menstrual cycle.

The testes of the male begin to produce testosterone at puberty in response to luteinizing hormone. Testosterone promotes maturation of the male reproductive organs, development of secondary sex characteristics such as increased muscle and bone mass, and the growth of body hair.

The pineal gland is located in the diencephalon of the brain. It primarily releases melatonin, which influences daily rhythms and may have an antigonadotropic effect in humans.[citation needed] It may also influence the melanotropes and melanocytes located in the skin.[citation needed]

Many body organs not normally considered endocrine organs contain isolated cell clusters that secrete hormones. Examples include the heart (atrial natriuretic peptide); gastrointestinal tract organs (gastrin, secretin, and others); the placenta (hormones of pregnancy—estrogen, progesterone, and others); the kidneys (erythropoietin and renin); the thymus; skin (cholecalciferol); and adipose tissue (leptin and resistin).

Endocrine glands derive from all three germ layers.[citation needed]

The natural decrease in function of the female's ovaries during late middle age results in menopause. The efficiency of all endocrine glands seems to decrease gradually as ageing occurs. This leads to a generalized increase in the incidence of diabetes mellitus and a lower metabolic rate.

Local chemical messengers, not generally considered part of the endocrine system, include autocrines, which act on the cells that secrete them, and paracrines, which act on a different cell type nearby.

The ability of a target cell to respond to a hormone depends on the presence of receptors, within the cell or on its plasma membrane, to which the hormone can bind.

Hormone receptors are dynamic structures. Changes in the number and sensitivity of hormone receptors may occur in response to high or low levels of stimulating hormones.

Blood levels of hormones reflect a balance between secretion and degradation/excretion. The liver and kidneys are the major organs that degrade hormones; breakdown products are excreted in urine and faeces.

Hormone half-life and duration of activity are limited and vary from hormone to hormone.

Interaction of hormones at target cells
Permissiveness is the situation in which a hormone cannot exert its full effects without the presence of another hormone.

Synergism occurs when two or more hormones produce the same effects in a target cell and their results are amplified.

Antagonism occurs when a hormone opposes or reverses the effect of another hormone.

The endocrine glands belong to the body's control system.  The hormones which they produce help to regulate the functions of cells and tissues throughout the body.  Endocrine organs are activated to release their hormones by humoral, neural, or hormonal stimuli. Negative feedback is important in regulating hormone levels in the blood.

The nervous system, acting through hypothalamic controls, can in certain cases override or modulate hormonal effects.

Diseases of the endocrine glands are common,[5] including conditions such as diabetes mellitus, thyroid disease, and obesity.

Endocrine disease is characterized by irregulated hormone release (a productive pituitary adenoma), inappropriate response to signalling (hypothyroidism), lack of a gland (diabetes mellitus type 1, diminished erythropoiesis in chronic kidney failure), or structural enlargement in a critical site such as the thyroid (toxic multinodular goitre). Hypofunction of endocrine glands can occur as a result of the loss of reserve, hyposecretion, agenesis, atrophy, or active destruction. Hyperfunction can occur as a result of hypersecretion, loss of suppression, hyperplastic, or neoplastic change, or hyperstimulation.

Endocrinopathies are classified as primary, secondary, or tertiary. Primary endocrine disease inhibits the action of downstream glands. Secondary endocrine disease is indicative of a problem with the pituitary gland. Tertiary endocrine disease is associated with dysfunction of the hypothalamus and its releasing hormones.[citation needed]

As the thyroid, and hormones have been implicated in signaling distant tissues to proliferate, for example, the estrogen receptor has been shown to be involved in certain breast cancers. Endocrine, paracrine, and autocrine signaling have all been implicated in proliferation, one of the required steps of oncogenesis.[6]

Other common diseases that result from endocrine dysfunction include Addison's disease, Cushing's disease and Grave's disease. Cushing's disease and Addison's disease are pathologies involving the dysfunction of the adrenal gland. Dysfunction in the adrenal gland could be due to primary or secondary factors and can result in hypercortisolism or hypocortisolism. Cushing's disease is characterized by the hypersecretion of the adrenocorticotropic hormone due to a pituitary adenoma that ultimately causes endogenous hypercortisolism by stimulating the adrenal glands.[7] Some clinical signs of Cushing's disease include obesity, moon face, and hirsutism.[8] Addison's disease is an endocrine disease that results from hypocortisolism caused by adrenal gland insufficiency. Adrenal insufficiency is significant because it is correlated with decreased ability to maintain blood pressure and blood sugar, a defect that can prove to be fatal.[9]

Graves' disease involves the hyperactivity of the thyroid gland which produces the T3 and T4 hormones.[8] Graves' disease effects range from excess sweating, fatigue, heat intolerance and high blood pressure to swelling of the eyes that causes redness, puffiness and in rare cases reduced or double vision.[citation needed]

Graves' disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism; hyposecretion causes cretinism in infants and myxoedema in adults.

Hyperparathyroidism results in hypercalcemia and its effects and in extreme bone wasting. Hypoparathyroidism leads to hypocalcemia, evidenced by tetany seizure and respiratory paralysis.
Hyposecretion of insulin results in diabetes mellitus; cardinal signs are polyuria, polydipsia, and polyphagia.
André Saltvold Danielsen (born 20 January 1985) is a Norwegian former footballer who played as a right-back or central midfielder.

Born in Stavanger,[2] Danielsen started his career with Stavanger IF before joining Viking in 2003.[4] In the fall of 2005 he was loaned out to Bryne.[5] Danielsen is the player with the most appearances for Viking of all time with a total of 553 appearances throughout 17 seasons at the club.[6][7] This number includes league matches, cup matches, European matches and friendly matches. On 28 October 2019, he announced that he would retire from football after the 2019 season. The same day, he revealed that he would continue to be involved with Viking as a coach for the academy at the club.[8] The 2019 season ended with victory in the 2019 Norwegian Cup Final. Danielsen did not make the squad, but he still received a winner's medal.[9][10]

Danielsen represented Norwegian national youth teams at under-18, under-19 and under-21 level.[1] He made his senior debut for Norway in a friendly match against Russia on 31 May 2014. In August 2014, he made his second and last international appearance.[11]


Donnie Darko is a 2001 American science fiction psychological thriller film written and directed by Richard Kelly in his directorial debut, and produced by Flower Films. It stars Jake Gyllenhaal, Jena Malone, Drew Barrymore, Mary McDonnell, Katharine Ross, Patrick Swayze and Noah Wyle, with Seth Rogen in his film debut. Set in October 1988, the film follows Donnie Darko (Gyllenhaal), a troubled teenager who inadvertently escapes a bizarre accident by sleepwalking. He has visions of Frank, a mysterious figure in a rabbit costume who informs him that the world will end in 28 days.

Development began in late 1997 when Kelly had graduated from film school and started writing scripts. He took an early idea of a jet engine falling onto a house with no one knowing its origin and built the story around it. Kelly insisted on directing the film himself and struggled to secure backing from producers until 2000, when Pandora Cinema and Barrymore's Flower Films agreed to produce it on a $4.5 million budget. Filming took 28 days in the summer of 2000, mostly in California. The soundtrack features a version of the Tears for Fears song, "Mad World" covered by American musicians Gary Jules and Michael Andrews, which went to number one on the UK Singles Chart for three weeks and was the Christmas number 1 in 2003.[4]

Donnie Darko premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 19, 2001, followed by a limited theatrical release on October 26. Because the film's advertising featured a crashing plane and the September 11 attacks had occurred a month and a half before, it was scarcely advertised.[5] This affected its box office performance and it grossed just $517,375 in its initial run.[3] However, the film gained a cult following,[6][7] and after reissues, it went on to gross $7.5 million worldwide, and earned more than $10 million in US home video sales.[8][9] It was listed No. 2 in Empire's "50 Greatest Independent Films of All Time",[10] and No. 53 in Empire's "500 Greatest Movies of All Time".[11] Kelly released Donnie Darko: The Director's Cut in 2004. The film was adapted into a stage production in 2007 and a sequel, S. Darko, followed in 2009 without Kelly's involvement. In 2021, he announced that work on a new sequel is in progress.[12]

On October 2, 1988, troubled teenager Donald "Donnie" Darko sleepwalks outside, led by a mysterious voice. Once outside, he meets a figure named Frank in a monstrous rabbit costume. Frank tells Donnie that the world will end in precisely 28 days. Donnie wakes up the next morning on a local golf course and returns home to discover a jet engine has crashed into his bedroom. His older sister Elizabeth tells him the FAA investigators do not know its origin.

Over the next several days, Donnie continues to have visions of Frank, and his parents, Eddie and Rose, send him to psychotherapist Dr. Thurman. Thurman believes Donnie is detached from reality and that his visions of Frank are "daylight hallucinations," symptomatic of paranoid schizophrenia. Frank asks Donnie if he believes in time travel, and Donnie in turn asks his science teacher, Dr. Kenneth Monnitoff. Monnitoff gives Donnie The Philosophy of Time Travel, a book written by Roberta Sparrow, a former science teacher at the school who is now a seemingly senile old woman living outside of town, known to the local teenagers as Grandma Death.

Frank begins to influence Donnie's actions through his sleepwalking episodes, including causing him to flood his high school by breaking a water main, an act for which Donnie almost gets caught. Donnie later starts dating Gretchen Ross, who has recently moved into town with her mother under a new identity to escape her violent stepfather. Gym teacher Kitty Farmer begins teaching "attitude lessons" taken from local motivational speaker Jim Cunningham, but Donnie rebels against these, leading to friction between Kitty and Rose. Kitty arranges for Cunningham to speak at a school assembly, where Donnie insults him. He later finds Cunningham's wallet and address. Gretchen and Donnie go on a movie theater date, where Gretchen falls asleep and Frank reveals himself to be a teenager with his right eye hollow and bleeding. Frank then convinces Donnie to burn down Cunningham's house, which he does while Gretchen is at the theatre. Firefighters discover a hoard of child pornography at the burned remains. Cunningham is arrested, and Kitty, who wishes to testify in his defense, asks Rose to replace her as chaperone for their daughters' dance troupe on its trip to Los Angeles.

With Rose in Los Angeles and Eddie away for business, Donnie and Elizabeth hold a Halloween costume party to celebrate Elizabeth's acceptance to Harvard. At the party, Gretchen arrives distraught as her mother has gone missing, and she and Donnie have sex for the first time. When Donnie realizes that Frank's prophesied end of the world is only hours away, he takes Gretchen and two other friends to see Sparrow. Instead of Sparrow, they find two high school bullies, Seth and Ricky, who are trying to rob Sparrow's home. Donnie, Seth, and Ricky fight in the road in front of her house just as Sparrow returns home. The bullies and Donnie's two friends leave when an oncoming car runs over Gretchen, killing her. The driver turns out to be Elizabeth's boyfriend, Frank Anderson, wearing the same rabbit costume from Donnie's visions. Angered, and realizing what is happening, Donnie shoots Frank in the right eye with his father's gun and walks home carrying Gretchen's body.

Donnie returns home in the morning as a vortex forms over his house. He borrows one of his parents' cars, loads Gretchen's body into it, and drives to a nearby ridge that overlooks the town. There, he watches as the plane carrying Rose and the dance troupe home from Los Angeles gets caught in the vortex's wake, violently ripping off one of its engines and sending it back in time. Events of the previous 28 days unwind. Donnie wakes up in his bedroom, recognizes the date is October 2, and laughs as the jet engine falls into his bedroom, killing him. Around town, those whose lives Donnie would have touched wake up from troubled dreams. Gretchen rides by the Darko home the following day and learns of Donnie's death. Gretchen asks the neighbor, "What was his name?" Gretchen and Rose exchange glances and wave as if they know each other but cannot remember from where.

The film originated in late 1997 when Kelly, aged 22, had graduated from USC School of Cinematic Arts in Los Angeles.[13] While earning money as a client's assistant at a post-production house, he thought about his future and decided to write his first feature-length script. The task frightened Kelly at first because he did not want to produce something that was poor in quality. It was not until October 1998 when Kelly felt the time was right to write a script and wrote Donnie Darko in 28 days, the same time period as the film.[14] The time of year influenced Kelly to set the film around Halloween.[15]

Kelly set out to write something "ambitious, personal, and nostalgic" about the 1980s which "pushed the envelope by combining science fiction with a coming-of-age tale".[16][13] The New York Times homed in on the 1980s coming-of-age story aspect by observing the influence of John Hughes, noting the "ineffectual" adults and the fact that Donnie's "suffering is a way to make him more sensitive".[17] Kelly summarized the script was to be "an amusing and poignant recollection of suburban America in the Reagan era".[18] He recalled a news story that he had read as a child, which he later called an urban legend,[19] about a large piece of ice falling from the wing of a plane and crashing through a boy's bedroom, who was not there at the time and thus escaped death.[18] Kelly used this to develop an initial idea of a jet engine falling onto a house and no one could determine its origin. He then built the rest of the script with the aim of resolving the mystery at the end while taking a "most interesting voyage" to get there, although at this point he knew the plane was to be one that Donnie's mother was on and was from a different dimension.[20][13] At one point Kelly considered replacing the jet engine with a piece of ice, like he had read.[21] He based the film's concept of time travel and alternate universes from reading A Brief History of Time by Stephen Hawking.[14]

Kelly was adamant about setting the film in 1988, thinking it would be fresh to explore the era and depict a society that he had not seen in a film before.[14] Later he admitted that he felt pressured to make the setting more contemporary. However, he could not figure out how to make the story work in such a setting and retained the original setting.[22] The first draft had Donnie originally wake up at a shopping mall, rather than a golf course.[19] Kelly got ideas for Donnie's experiences of paranoid schizophrenia from researching the topic online. He considered such a broad disorder that is difficult to define was "a great way to ground a supernatural story" in a scientific sense.[23] The first draft was between 145–150 pages; Kelly did not change what he had initially written as he was aware that stopping to review it would have caused him to second guess himself.[24] He presented it to producer Sean McKittrick, who recalled he "had never read anything like this before", and helped refine the script while making the story understandable enough.[21] After two more drafts were written, the pair finalized a 128-page script.[25] Kelly felt that had he clarified the film's ending any further, "the film would collapse under its own pretension", and credited McKittrick, Juvonen, and Gyllenhaal, whom he said were "aggressive" and "vocal" in not letting there be one simple answer to the plot.[26]

There are some autobiographical links with Kelly and the film; he said there is "plenty of me" in Donnie's character. Kelly grew up in Midlothian, Virginia, also a suburban town, where a local woman called Grandma Death would stand by the road and constantly open and close her mailbox. Kelly also incorporated the moment he almost ran over a homeless person while driving, arguments with his school teachers over the curriculum, and his personal experiences with sleepwalking into the narrative.[27] The word "fuck-ass", used in the Darko family dinner scene, was something that two of Kelly's film school friends used during their occasional exchange of insults.[24] Frank was to be a rabbit since the beginning, but Kelly was unsure whether the character originated from a dream or his longtime interest in the animal novel Watership Down by Richard Adams. The novel was to be taught in Karen's English class after the school had censored Graham Greene from her curriculum; it was a subplot that was abandoned in the theatrical version but included in the director's cut.[28][29]

Kelly knew that the film's complicated story would be difficult to pitch to producers without a script, so he had producers read it first before discussing it with them further.[16] While pitching the script, Kelly and McKittrick insisted that Kelly direct the film, which hindered its chances at being picked up.[21] Kelly recalled 1999 being a year of "meeting after meeting", all of which ended in rejection, and at this point declared the film "dead". McKittrick said Donnie Darko was "the challenging script in town that everybody wanted to make, but was too afraid".[13]

A turning point arrived when agents John Campisi and Rob Paris at the Creative Artists Agency took an interest in the script and signed Kelly on.[21] Kelly said his "jaw was on the floor" at the unexpected offer, which greatly boosted the chances of having the film made with the agency's stamp on the script.[25] This led to further meetings with several prominent individuals, including Francis Ford Coppola, Ben Stiller, William Horberg, and Betty Thomas.[21] Kelly's meeting with Coppola was particularly influential, as Coppola drew his attention to one of Karen's lines after she is fired—"The kids have to figure it all out these days, because the parents, they don't have a clue"—and Kelly recalled: "He slid the binder down the big table and very dramatically said: 'That's what your whole movie's about right there.'"[15] Early on Vince Vaughn was offered the role of Donnie, but he turned it down as he felt he was too old for the part.[30] Mark Wahlberg was also approached, but he insisted that he should play Donnie with a lisp.[31]

Development progressed in early 2000, when actor Jason Schwartzman expressed an interest in the script and agreed to play as Donnie.[13][15][32] Kelly said this moment "legitimized me as a director" and recalled "all of a sudden people came out of the woodwork, it was alive again". Around this time Pandora Cinema offered a $2.5 million production budget, and Schwartzman's agent sent the script to Nancy Juvonen, who co-owned Flower Films with actress Drew Barrymore. The pair liked the script and wanted to get involved, which led Kelly and McKittrick to a meeting with the pair in March 2000 on the set of Charlie's Angels (2000), where Barrymore was filming. Barrymore agreed to play as Karen, and Flower Films agreed to increase the budget to $4.5 million.[33][34][21][16][35] Kelly later called the sum the "bare minimum" to make the film.[19]

After securing enough financial backing, pre-production accelerated and filming was booked for the summer of 2000 and scheduled to accommodate Barrymore, who had just one week's availability.[21] However, by July, Schwartzman had withdrawn due to scheduling conflicts. This led to an "exciting" period for Kelly who met several hopefuls, including Patrick Fugit and Lucas Black.[34][21] Gyllenhaal, who was in Los Angeles auditioning for parts, was "mesmerised" by the script and recalled pulling over the side of the road to finish reading it.[18] Filming was scheduled to start in one month, during which Kelly worked with Gyllenhaal to amend parts of his dialogue. Gyllenhaal was given "a lot of room" to incorporate his own ideas, including making his voice sound like "a child talking to its blanket" when he talks to Frank as he is a source of comfort for Donnie.[13] Gyllenhaal also had the idea to have his real-life sister Maggie star as Elizabeth Darko.[18] Jolene Purdy's audition for Cherita was the first of her career. Kelly credits Juvonen for being instrumental for getting Wyle and Swayze on board.[21]

Kelly recalled several people showing him drawings of what they thought Frank should look like, describing them like an Easter bunny. He wanted Frank to be "disturbing and animalistic". He produced initial sketches of Frank's face and presented them to production designer Alex Hammond, who then made front and side drawings of the mask and sketches of the full suit.[21] Kelly also said that the 1972 novel Watership Down was also the inspiration for Frank.[36] The design was given to costume designer April Ferry who built the costume from scratch and hired a sculptor to create Frank's altered grin. Kelly insisted that Frank's face had to disturb people and create an intense response with the audience. The costume was first presented to the cast and crew at Loyola High School, shortly after filming began. Although Duval wore the suit for almost every scene, a director stepped in for the initial shoot. Kelly recalled, "Everyone just got quiet [...] like, this is really intense. So I knew it was working, and I felt the sense of relief."[21][28] Kelly wanted Frank's voice to sound as if he was speaking through liquid and "has the power of the ocean", and recalled spending a considerable amount of time with the sound designer to achieve the effect on Duval's voice.[37] There was not enough money in the budget for Ferry to dress everyone in 1980s clothing, so she suggested to Kelly that the pupils should wear school uniforms. Kelly agreed, feeling that it would help to portray the idea of Donnie challenging conformity and the educational system.[14]

Kelly chose Steven Poster as cinematographer from going through a stack of resumes and noted Poster had shot Someone to Watch Over Me (1987) for director Ridley Scott; to Kelly, this meant "you can retire, you made it."[38] Poster had not shot a feature film in two years, and Kelly had to persuade him to accept the job for a reduced fee.[38] Poster had Kelly dissect the script for him at their initial meeting: "We read every word, every sentence, every page, every scene in the movie. I made him justify to me why he wanted that in the movie. I wanted him to be able to tell me what each scene was going to tell the audience." Although the task created arguments between them, once complete the pair knew exactly what was needed to make the film.[39] Poster's reputation and connections with Panavision allowed Kelly to shoot with "an unprecedented amount" of filming equipment from them at a reduced price.[40] For night time shots, Kelly showed the crew scenes from Peggy Sue Got Married (1986) for its "idealised ... burnished nostalgia". The polished cinematography in Donnie Darko "creates a feeling of hyper-reality, suggesting that all is not what it seems."[41]

The film was publicized at the Sundance Film Festival as being the first to feature significant digital effects. Kelly wanted to use them only "when absolutely necessary" and have them relate to the story, such as the water barrier seen between Donnie and Frank in his bathroom. The liquid spears that emerge from people's torsos are reminiscent of the water tentacle in The Abyss (1989), and can be seen as a representation of a character's psyche. Alternatively, they demonstrate the "metaphysical idea of predestination", suggesting Donnie is being guided, perhaps by God.[42] Kelly got the idea from the on-screen chalkboard that American football commentator John Madden used to illustrate the movements of the players during a replay. Incidentally, the spears first appear when Donnie is watching a football game on television. The school flooding was inspired by a surreal photomontage by Scott Mutter, in which a giant escalator descends into a rough sea.[43]

Filming was completed in 28 days, the same length of time as the film's events, in July and August 2000.[2] Most of the film was shot in Long Beach, California; Kelly was uninterested in shooting elsewhere because he wanted to portray a strong suburban feel. The ongoing commercial actors strike had created a shortage of work, so additional actors and crew members willing to work for scale were hired for the film.[37] The golf course scenes were filmed at Virginia Country Club and the school scenes were shot at Loyola High School. The opening scene with Donnie waking up was the first to be filmed; it was shot at sunrise on the Angeles Crest Highway.[44] The theatre marquee was shot at the Aero Theatre in Santa Monica.[37] Kelly lost twenty pounds from the stress of filming to a tight schedule, plus the pressure of justifying himself to others that he could direct the film.[18] He openly stated to the actors that he was inexperienced and had no idea how to address them properly, so he talked to them like they were his friends.[45]

Production designer Alex Hammond bought the jet engine used in the film for $10,000. The scene where it falls onto Donnie's bedroom was done in one shot. The shell of it was rigged above the set and sent through using an air pressure gun. Poster remembered people telling Kelly that jet engines do not fall off planes, but during production a "dishwasher-sized engine part" fell from the engine of a Boeing 747 and landed on a beach.[21] Swayze frosted his hair specifically for his part and the infomercial clips were filmed at his ranch.[19]

Kelly's goal was to "seduce the audience" from the film's opening shot.[27] He was attentive to details and spoke to his transportation coordinator to ensure all cars in the film were era-specific. He wanted to avoid going "too kitsch" with the style and costumes and retain a conservative style of the Virginia suburb.[14] The long shots at the school with "Head Over Heels" playing angered the production and line managers at first, who thought it was "an indulgent music video" that lacked dialogue and did nothing to advance the story. Upon viewing the finished sequence, they had changed their minds. Kelly choreographed the scene's action to the song before the rights to use it had been acquired.[18] Sparkle Motion's performance scene was one of the more difficult shots for Poster, who used smoke to give the appearance that light is there and to achieve silhouettes of the girls on stage.[39]

The film was shot with a Panavision Panastar camera[39] and in anamorphic format, which involves filming in widescreen onto standard 35 mm film. Despite its setbacks and the need to have twice as much light, Kelly was adamant.[21] Poster suggested using Kodak 800 ASA film stock, which people said looked "terrible and grainy", but he convinced the producers that anamorphic would reduce the amount of work with low ceiling lights that were common in the locations used for filming as they would be cut from the shot. The anamorphic process required Swayze to kneel down for some scenes so he could fit in the image.[39] Early on Kelly made a promise to Sam Bauer that he would edit his first feature film when he had the opportunity, but Pandora Cinema disagreed with the choice initially. Kelly recalled he and McKittrick had to "fight like hell" to get Bauer onboard, and eventually Pandora agreed.[46] The water barrier effects were produced by Kelly Carlton for $5,000.[47]

The film's soundtrack was composed by San Diego musician and songwriter Michael Andrews. Kelly knew that the film's limited budget prevented him from hiring either "Thomas Newman or Danny Elfman" to compose the score for the film, so he decided to look for a composer who happens to be someone "very young, hungry, and really talented". Andrews was recommended by Juvonen's brother, Jim.[19]

The film's opening sequence is set to "The Killing Moon" by Echo & the Bunnymen. The continuous shot of introduction of Donnie's high school prominently features the song "Head over Heels" by Tears for Fears. Samantha's dance group "Sparkle Motion" performs to "Notorious" by Duran Duran. When the scene was originally shot, the group danced to "West End Girls" by Pet Shop Boys. However, the rights to the song could not be obtained for the final release. "Under the Milky Way" by The Church is played after Donnie and Gretchen emerge from his bedroom during the party. "Love Will Tear Us Apart" by Joy Division also appears in the film diegetically during the party and shots of Donnie and Gretchen upstairs. Despite the film being set in 1988, the version played was not released until 1995. In the director's cut, the music in the opening sequence is replaced by "Never Tear Us Apart" by INXS; "Under the Milky Way" is moved to the scene of Donnie and Eddie driving home from Donnie's meeting with his therapist; and "The Killing Moon" is played as Gretchen and Donnie return to the party from Donnie's parents' room.[48]

The film's end sequence features a piano-driven cover of "Mad World" by English new wave group Tears for Fears, sung by American musician Gary Jules, a schoolfriend of Andrews, and composed by Michael Andrews. In 2003, the cover of "Mad World" was released as a single that was number one in the United Kingdom for three weeks, during which it was the country's Christmas No. 1 of that year.[49]

Donnie Darko premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah, on January 19, 2001. Kelly said it took around six months to secure a theatrical release; at one point, he was close to having it on the premium cable and satellite television network Starz.[50] Donnie firing a gun became one of Kelly's biggest problems while finding a distributor, as the Columbine High School massacre from 1999 raised concerns of the film promoting teenage suicide.[15] The licensed songs in the film also presented problems as they had yet to be paid for, causing a risk of them being removed for a wide release. Kelly was also advised to cut 30 minutes from the film.[21] Despite the problems, Newmarket Films agreed to buy the film and organise a theatrical release in a service deal with IFC Films.[49] Kelly involved Barrymore in the negotiations and recalled getting her to "beg" Newmarket for a deal, who had initially considered a straight-to-video release for it. Kelly credits Christopher Nolan and his wife Emma Thomas in securing the deal, after Memento producer Aaron Ryder arranged a private screening of Donnie Darko for Newmarket executives Chris Ball and Will Tyrer and encouraged the pair to distribute it.[21]

With a deal secured, the crew spent the summer of 2001 revisiting the film; Ryder said it was to get the film "in the best possible shape we could", but recalled the difficulty in the task.[21] This involved an additional day of shooting to clarify some plot holes, such as Ryder's suggestion of including shots of Frank in the "Mad World" sequence.[21] Nolan and Thomas had advised Kelly to insert title cards throughout the film to break down the events leading up to October 30, 1988, which he did.[15][21]

Donnie Darko was theatrically released from October 26, 2001, to its peak of 58 theaters across the United States; its premiere was held at the Egyptian Theatre in Hollywood.[21][51] The film grossed $110,494 on its opening weekend, ranking No. 34 on the box office.[52] The film was released six weeks after the September 11 attacks and its trailer featured an accident involving an aircraft, which affected its chances of box office success. Kelly said the film was not "attractive to people in that emotional, very deeply traumatizing chapter in our history".[21][53] Newmarket president Bob Berney said "the bleak mood and the timing" was the cause of the film's failure at the box office, and that critics failed to understand or accept the film for what it is. "The mood filtered through everything."[49] When its theatrical run ended on April 11, 2002, the film had grossed $517,375.[3][52] After reissues, it went on to gross $7.6 million worldwide, recouping its budget.[3] Despite its initial poor box office showing, the film attracted a devoted fan base and gained a cult following. Following its release on home video in March 2002, the Pioneer Theatre in New York City began midnight screenings of Donnie Darko that ran for 28 consecutive months.[49]

In October 2002, the film was released in the UK, which generated renewed critical and commercial interest in the film. It sold 300,000 tickets within the first six weeks of its release, based mostly on word-of-mouth marketing,[54] and grossed the equivalent of $2.5 million in its theatrical run.[49] Its UK distributor Metrodome Distribution organised They Made Me Do It, an art exhibition that ran for 28 days at cafe bar Dream Bags Jaguar Shoes[55][56] in Shoreditch, London. The project involved several graffiti artists given 6 hours, 42 minutes, and 12 seconds to complete a work inspired by the film.[57]

Kelly published The Donnie Darko Book in October 2003. Jake Gyllenhaal wrote the foreword, in which he comments on the confusing nature of the film. The book includes an interview with Kelly who discusses the process of making and marketing the film, and questions about his personal life. The full shooting script of the film is included, plus several pages from The Philosophy of Time Travel and photographs and concept sketches such as Frank's mask and slides from Cunningham's school presentation.[58]

The official Donnie Darko website, donniedarko.com (which can still be found archived here), was an interactive experience and marketing tool for the film. The website was riddled with puzzles and secrets and contained never-before-seen information about the universe of the film, including information about the fate of many of the characters after the film ends.[59] James Beck has commented on the website's validity as a narrative in and of itself due to the website's introduction of new content while reinforcing themes from the movie like fluidity of time, exemplified by the website's lack of concern for the chronology of the movie. Beck further argues that the Donnie Darko website differs from most other promotional websites in that it treats the user not as an outside viewer, but rather as someone within the universe of the film, creating an experience rather than an advertisement.[60]

20th Century Fox Home Entertainment released the film for home video several times. The first was in March 2002 on VHS and DVD formats, of which the latter included bonus material, including audio commentaries, trailers and TV spots, concept art, galleries, and a virtual guide through The Philosophy of Time.[61] Berney declared the film "a runaway hit" on DVD, the sales in the US alone brought in over $10 million.[15]

In 2009, the film was released on Blu-ray, containing the theatrical and director's cuts.[62] A four-disc set was released in 2011 to commemorate its tenth anniversary, containing the original theatrical version, director's cut, DVD cut from 2002, and digital cut.[63] In 2017, Arrow Films released a limited edition Blu-ray and DVD set in the UK, taken from a new 4K scan of the original print, with supervision and approval by Kelly.[64] In April 2021, Arrow Films released a two-disc Ultra HD Blu-ray box set containing both cuts in 4K resolution restorations from the original negatives, supervised by Kelly and Poster. The discs features Kelly's 1996 short film The Goodbye Place, deleted scenes, B-roll footage, a music video, trailers, and TV spots, as other features from the original DVD release of Donnie Darko: The Director's Cut.[65]

The idea to produce a director's cut of the film originated in late 2003, when Kelly and Berney attended the first-anniversary screening at the Pioneer Theatre in New York City.[49] Donnie Darko: The Director's Cut premiered on 29 May 2004, at the Seattle International Film Festival, followed by screenings in New York City and Los Angeles on 23 July. The tickets sold out within the day for the Seattle International Film Festival premiere, grossing nearly $33,000 over a five-day period.[66] This cut includes 20 minutes of extra footage and an altered soundtrack.[67]

Donnie Darko: The Director's Cut was released on DVD on February 15, 2005 in both single and double-disc versions; the latter was available in a standard DVD case or in a limited edition lenticular slipcase. Most additional features are exclusive to the two-DVD set, such as an audio commentary with Kelly and Smith, excerpts from the Donnie Darko storyboard, a 52-minute production diary with commentary by director of photography Steven Poster, featurettes, and the film's theatrical trailer.[68]

The DVD of the director's cut includes text of the in-universe book, The Philosophy of Time Travel, written by Roberta Sparrow, which Donnie is given and reads in the film.[69] The text expands on the philosophical and scientific concepts much of the film's plot revolves around, and has been seen as a way to understand the film better than from its theatrical release.[70][71][72] As outlined by a Salon article, drawing from the book's text, much of the film takes place in an unstable tangent universe that is physically connected to the primary universe by a wormhole (the entrance to which is the vortex seen at the end of the film) and which is an exact duplicate of the primary, except for an extra metal object known as an "artifact" — which in this case is the jet engine. If the artifact is not sent [back] to the primary universe by the designated living receiver (Donnie) within 28 days, the primary universe will be destroyed upon the collapse of the tangent universe into a black hole. To aid in this task, the living receiver is given super-human abilities such as foresight, physical strength, and elemental powers, but at the cost of troubling visions and paranoia, while the manipulated living (all who live around the receiver) support him in unnatural ways, setting up a domino-like chain of events encouraging him to return the artifact. The manipulated dead (those who die within the tangent universe, like Frank and Gretchen) are more aware than the manipulated living, having the ability to travel through time, and will set an ensurance trap: a scenario which leaves the receiver no choice but to save the primary universe.[70]

The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 88% of critics gave the film a positive review based on 124 reviews, with an average rating of 7.6/10. The site's critics consensus reads, "Richard Kelly's debut feature Donnie Darko is a daring, original vision, packed with jarring ideas and intelligence and featuring a remarkable performance from Jake Gyllenhaal as the troubled title character."[73] Metacritic gives the theatrical version of the film a weighted average score of 71 out of 100 based on 21 reviews, which indicates "generally favorable" reviews.[74]

Andrew Johnson cited the film in Us Weekly, as one of the outstanding films at Sundance in 2001, describing it as "a heady blend of science fiction, spirituality, and teen angst".[75] Jean Oppenheimer of New Times (LA) praised the film, saying, "Like gathering storm clouds, Donnie Darko creates an atmosphere of eerie calm and mounting menace—[and] stands as one of the most exceptional movies of 2001."[76] Writing for ABC Australia, Megan Spencer called the movie "menacing, dreamy and exciting" and noted "it could take you to a deeply emotional place lying dormant in your soul".[77] Roger Ebert gave the theatrical version of the film two and a half stars out of four, but later gave the director's cut three stars out of four.[78]

Other critics like Sam Adams called the movie an apparent "big mess", citing incoherent plot, sloppy writing, and an uneven tone. Adams also took issue with the "seemingly irrelevant" but oft-referenced setting in a suburban America in the 1980s, claiming that it "serves as another example of the movie's struggle to find identity".[79] Another review from the San Antonio Current lauds the build-up, citing vast build of mysteries with compelling characters, but claims the movie's ending "leaves much to be desired", calling it cheap and anti-climactic.[80] The film has been praised for its 1980s nostalgia.[81][82][14][83]



A 2009 sequel, S. Darko, set seven years afterwards, centers on the now 18-year-old Sam, Donnie's younger sister. Sam is troubled by her brother's death and begins to have problems with sleepwalking, along with strange dreams that hint at an impending major catastrophe. The sequel received extremely negative reviews.[90][91] Kelly said he had no involvement in the sequel as he no longer owns the rights to the original.[92] In 2017, Kelly said that he resents being asked about the sequel and that he had never seen it.[93]

In 2017, Kelly revealed that he had ideas for a new sequel that is "much bigger and more ambitious" than the original.[93][94] In January 2021, he announced that "an enormous amount of work" had been done on the script.[95] He was inspired to do so after a 2010 meeting with James Cameron, who found the film "disturbing" and had Kelly explain what happened to Donnie at the end of the film. Cameron suggested to Kelly that he continue working on the project, which made Kelly realize that "there was really something big, something epic that could be done."[96]

Marcus Stern, associate director of the American Repertory Theater, directed a stage adaptation of Donnie Darko at the Zero Arrow Theatre in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in the fall of 2007. It ran from October 27 until November 18, 2007, with opening night scheduled near Halloween.[97] An article written by the production drama team says the director and production team planned to "embrace the challenge to make the fantastical elements come alive on stage".[98] A playable skin based on Frank was released in Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War in October 2021.[99]




Henry George Bruder Jr. (November 22, 1907 – June 29, 1970) was an American football player in the National Football League (NFL).  He played nine years with the Green Bay Packers from 1931 to 1939 and was inducted into the Green Bay Packers Hall of Fame in 1972.[1] Bruder attended Northwestern University, where he was a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity.[2]

He was part of the offensive line that blocked for Pro Football Hall of Fame back Johnny "Blood" McNally. Bruder also spent some time as a professional wrestler.[3]



This biographical article relating to an American football offensive lineman born in the 1900s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.The University of the Philippines Singing Ambassadors, also known as the UP Singing Ambassadors or UPSA, is one of the major performing musical groups based at the University of the Philippines Diliman (UP-Diliman) in Quezon City, Philippines. UPSA is the State University's official performing group for choreographed choral music and resident choir of the UP College of Arts and Letters. The UPSA has performed music from different styles: classical music, international songs, spirituals, ethnic, Broadway, pop, jazz, gospel, inspirational songs and rock. As ambassadors of Philippine culture, the UPSA incorporates cultural dances, costumes and traditions from various regions in the Philippines as part of its repertoire.

The UPSA has won numerous accolades and citations, locally and internationally, including a slot at the 2002 European Choral Grand Prix.

Like two other UP-based choirs (namely, the Philippine Madrigal Singers (the Madz) and the UP Concert Chorus (UPCC)), the UPSA has gained national prominence through its participation in international choral competitions.

Winning the Gran Premio Città at the Concorso Polifonico Internazionale Guido d'Arezzo in Italy in 2001 (thus far the only Asian choir winning the award),[1] the UPSA was eligible to compete as one of the finalists in the 14th European Grand Prix of Choral Singing in 2002.[2] Together with the Madz, the UST Singers and the Ateneo Glee Club, the UPSA is one of only four Filipino choirs who were eligible to compete in the European Choral Grand Prix.


The UPSA also has the distinction of being the only choir that has won three awards in the 51-year history of the International Habaneras and Polyphony Contest[3] in Torrevieja, Spain. This competition was also participated in by the Philippine Madridal Singers a year before UPSA joined the competition.


Bilat Paswan, who wrote under the pen name Vihangam, was an Indian writer and politician, known for his writings in Hindi & Maithili literature.[1] He was a former chairman of Bihar Public Service Commission & former chairman of Bihar Inter University Board. Born in 1940 to Bhutai Paswan in Bihar,[2] he represented Rajnagar (Vidhan Sabha constituency) at the Bihar Legislative Assembly for two terms in 1968 and 1972 & Khajauli (Vidhan Sabha constituency) at the Bihar Legislative Assembly for two terms in 1985 and 1990,[3] contesting under Indian National Congress candidature, defeating Ram Lakhan Ram of the Communist Party of India on both the elections.[4] He also contested two elections unsuccessfully, in 1980 and 2000.[5] The Government of India awarded him the fourth highest civilian honour of the Padma Shri, in 2005, for his contributions to literature.[6]



This article about an Indian National Congress politician from Bihar is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.
This article about an Indian writer or poet is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.In January 1995, the government of Helmut Kohl introduced the Social Law XI 1, the German long term care insurance. It is an independent part of the social security in Germany, in the Sozialgesetzbuch and provides financial provision for the risk of care necessity. Long-term care insurance was introduced as the fifth pillar of social insurance after health insurance, industrial injuries, pensions and unemployment insurance. This fifth pillar is financed by the care fund, which was built for all the individual health insurance policies.

Insurance is also provided for people who need care because of the severity of their long-term care. Old and sick people are no longer dependent on social security if in need of care. Statutory care insurance covers a portion of the home and residential care costs if an increased need for nursing or household assistance of at least six months is required. This will help the patient to lead an independent and self-determined life.[1]

Both compulsory and voluntarily insured individuals in the statutory health insurance system are automatically covered by the social long-term care insurance. Voluntarily insured individuals, along with those who are fully privately insured, have the option to take out private long-term care insurance instead. Family members can also be covered under a regular member’s insurance through contribution-free family coverage. [2]  With this system, a cover for the entire population was introduced.[3]

The care need people receive the benefits of insurance cover in three stages. The stages are referred to as levels of care and serve the classification of the claims of each care dependent person. The decision for the classification in the care insurance is made with substantial consideration of the nursing report. It is created by the medical service of health insurance, in which the insured is examined in his living area. The levels of care are organized as follows:

If there is need of personal care below the required threshold of at least 90 min per day,  there are no benefits. All services except for technical aids and care courses are budgeted. This is to prevent that the care insurance from being converted into full insurance. Thus, the contributions will be kept stable and the development expenditure can be controlled.[5]

Like the levels of care, the services are categorized as well. On the one side there is the home care and on the other side there is the inpatient care. The home care can be divided into four categories:

The first group is the so-called care allowance, a monthly cash benefit for private organized caregivers, such as family members who are currently not employed. The cash amount in €235 in category I, €440 in category II and €700 in category III. In this scheme, there is no case of hardship arrangement.

The second option is the care benefit in kind. The ambulatory care service for the home care is subsidized, which is selected by the patient. These benefit have a maximum amount per month. In care level, I the amount is €450; in care level II, €1100; and in level III, €1,550. In special hardship cases, the care fund can cover operations with a total value of up to €1,918.

In addition, the combination of the care fund and care benefits is possible. In this case, the care benefits of the nursing for the home care can be charged as material costs. As well, the present share of the maximum amount can be claimed as cash benefit for caregivers.

Partial inpatient care is a temporary support during the day in an institution. The benefits are identical to those of the care in kind.[6]

Inpatient care includes an accommodation in a home. This means that services are provided for the duration of care. The need for inpatient care is assumed. The care fund pays a fee to the nursing home. In care level I, the amount is €1023; in level II, €1,279; and in level III, €1,432. In extreme cases, up to €1,688 can be paid. The cash benefits are only for the cost of care and social support determined the home. If the income from all the family members required to pay maintenance is not sufficient to pay the remaining costs of the inpatient care, the appropriate social assistance institution can be requested.[7]

With the introduction of the care insurance, the risk of nursing care case got recognition as a general life risk. This is a budgeting system. This means that depending on the level of care people get a fixed amount that is paid by the insurance as support, regardless of how high the prices for such services, such as by inflation, should rise over the years. The amount of the fee is based on the contribution rate and the assessable income of the members. For the publicly insured people, the contribution rate is 1.7%.

However, childless people who are 23 years or older have to pay a rate of 1.95%. This is paid from the gross amount of wages or pensions but only up to a maximum amount for health insurance from the current €4,012.50 per month. This regulation applies equally to all citizens of Germany since 1. July 1996. Family members are in a non-contributory insurance if the family coverage is eligible for the health insurance. However, the receipt of benefits from the long-term care does not absolve from payment of contributions.[8]

The care insurance is very complex so that few citizens have the necessary information to apply for the claim properly. Evaluators of the medical service test whether a person is entitled to have care. The patients are not prepared for the report. This creates a false impression of fitness and subsequently an incorrect (less comprehensive) classification of those people. This leads to the problem that the family and patient cannot cope with the situation financially.[9]

In cases where patients or their families feel a claim was wrongly denied or classified, they can turn to the Insurance Ombudsman (Versicherungsombudsmann), an independent and free arbitration board that helps resolve disputes between consumers and insurance providers without going to court. [10]

There are many ways to care for family members or to give assistance: the home emergency, the short-term and day care, the assisted living, the help for housekeeping, the meals being delivered to the house, the driving and escort services, and the nursing homes. This is only a small overview of the diversity of these opportunities. Because this issue is so complex, patients often do not receive assistance and private insurance for nursing care.[11]

Furthermore, important factors in determining the time required for care are not taken into account in general. The emerging care reform includes the care of people suffering from dementia and need to get permanent presence from a person. In contrast, there is neither support in social areas of life nor help to manage crises and isolation nor dealing with dying and death. Equally nursing care cases of shorter duration than half a year get no payments from the original insurance.[12]

In principle, the legislature requires the combination of two conditions in the case of entitlement to benefit. On one hand, patients need to have assistance both in the nursing part and in the household. On the other hand, outside assistance is needed regularly and permanently. If any of these conditions is not met, there is no payment. The regular need for assistance means that care is needed at least once a week. Durable means that the need for care exists longer than six months. "The actual duration is not important, but the prognosis, the prospects for the future“.[13]

Also, people needing care must meet formal requirements. The patients must be insured in the statutory or private health insurance as well as they have to be in the care insurance with contributions or non-contributory and apply for nursing care.[14]  To apply for this the concerned person must have a prior insurance of about five years in a care fund.[15]

Meanwhile, the shortage of nurses has become an important topic as well. Nearly one in five employees in nursing would like to leave the profession because of excessive working hours. Mostly, this concerns younger and better qualified nursing staff. The time pressure that is put on professional nurses in difficult care situations usually affects the quality of care for people on need.[16]

Twelve years after its introduction, long-term care was reformed for the first time in 2008. The Act provides, inter alia, a broadening of services. The care reform provides various changes. The membership rate for the long term care was raised on 1 July 2008 by 0.25% so the care rate rose from 1.7% to 1.95%. For people without children, already at least 23, the nursing care rate rise up to 2.2% of the gross salary. The higher care premiums should be sufficient to 2014. After that, the maintenance care rates should adjusted for price increases every 3 years.[17]

For elderly care centres, there should be more possible alternatives. Firstly, it is planned to include someone like a care advisor who identifies the need for assistance, creates individual care plans and supervise the implementation. Secondly, a support for supervised living arrangements and bases for care close to home. These residential communities have the chance to order a jointly nursing support. Home care bases are established when a country decides. In addition care funds can close contracts more easily, not only with nursing services but also with individual nurses contracts. Inpatient facilities, however, co-operate more easily with doctors or they can hire their own doctors.[18]

The care reform also increased gradually care benefit services in kind by 2012. In care level I, the amount rose from €384 to €450; in care level II, from €921 to €1,100; and in care level III, from €1,432 to €1,550.
[19]

The stationary amounts changed only in care level III. Here, the performance gradually increased from €1,432 to €1,550 in 2012. In extreme cases, the performance was from €1,688 to €1,918.
[20]

For people with dementia, Alzheimer's or mental disabilities, performances should be extended. They get them if they are not yet in care level I. Here they went from €460 to €2400. On 1 July 2008, a basic amount and an increased amount were introduced. The basic amount can be up to €1,200 per year and is intended for those with a comparatively lower overall support costs. The referred amount of up to €2,400 is intended for people with higher overall support costs in relation to care needs. These amounts are paid in addition to proper care. People with dementia receiving better care in nursing homes. For these people, additional support staff is deployed, financed by the care funds. Further services amounting to €200 million will be spent.[21]

Care services in elderly care centres were compensated additionally. Furthermore, the claim of the short-term care was also raised gradually in care level III and in cases of hardship. Short-term care for children needing help from institutions for the disabled expanded. Benefits for day and night care were improved, higher subsidies were offered, and performances got index-linked. Also, the insurance period has been shortened to two years. In addition, care funds had a shortened review period so they must provide results within five weeks to the submitted application. For a hospital stay, the review period has to occur by the medical service of health insurance within a week.

Pension entitlement is increased for the benefit of the caretaker. These people are paid in the future during their leisure as contributions to statutory pension insurance.

In the future, patients are entitled to a comprehensive care advice so for the insured person an individual counseling, support and guidance, which is tailored to the individual needs.[22]

The care reform is a claim for unpaid but socially insured exemption. As already stated, this means for the members that the opportunity should be offered to receive six months unpaid leave from her work with the right to return to work for employees in companies with more than 15 employees. In addition, employees are entitled to temporary, unpaid leave of up to 10 working days given to organize the care of a relative, who needs unexpectedly nursing care. During this period the worker is insured again.[23]

To ensure expanding quality assurance in nursing homes, they were rewarded with a one-time bonus of €1536 if a caretaker reaches a better care level due to good care. To prevent abuse, the more favorable classification has to remain at least six months. It also specifies that the health care insurance pays a settlement amount of €3,072 if the rehabilitation can be provided in time. Thus, transition from hospital care to rehabilitation and maintenance work should be seamless. To insure the quality of institutions, expert standards bodies should be established.

Before testing once a year, all institutions are inspected previously. These tests are generally unannounced. The insured will be able to get a better estimation on the basis of published reports for the individual institutions.[24]

To  support the population, health insurances are allowed to communicate private care insurances.

The care reform provides for the support of citizens who dedicate themselves in their free time to care. They will be promoted, for example, with the acquisition of training costs. They can participate in support groups or day care.[25]


Anne Hamilton, Duchess of Hamilton (1720 – 9 March 1771) formerly Anne Spencer, was the third wife of James Hamilton, 5th Duke of Hamilton.

She was the daughter of Edward Spencer of Rendlesham, Suffolk, where she was born.[1] Thus she was the sister of Elizabeth Spencer, later the wife of Sir James Dashwood, 2nd Baronet,[2] and the aunt of the future Anne Stewart, Countess of Galloway and Elizabeth, Duchess of Manchester.

His second wife having died in 1729, the duke married Anne Spencer on 21 August 1737. They had three children:

The duke died in 1743, aged 40, and was initially succeeded by James, his 21-year-old son from his first marriage. The duchess remarried on 24 December 1751, her second husband being Richard Savage Nassau, a son of Frederick Nassau de Zuylestein, 3rd Earl of Rochford. She retained the status of dowager duchess.[9]

They had three children:

The duchess died in 1771 and was buried at Easton, Suffolk, under the terms of her will. The Spencer family estates passed to her elder son, Archibald, who later inherited the dukedom from the son of his half-brother.[9]
The Storm (La Tempête) is a painting by French artist Pierre Auguste Cot, completed in 1880. Currently part the Metropolitan Museum of Art's collection in New York City, it was commissioned from the artist in 1880 by Catharine Lorillard Wolfe under the guidance of her cousin John Wolfe, one of Cot's principal patrons.

The painting is reminiscent of an earlier work, Springtime, which was completed by Cot in 1870. It was subsequently acquired by John Wolfe after it was displayed with astounding success at the Salon of 1873. It is believed that the presence of Spring in Wolfe's collection was the impetus that drove his cousin, Catharine Lorillard Wolfe, to purchase it in 1880. Both are of roughly the same dimensions and are evidently related in a subject in the sense that both portray a young, nubile couple. It is from this therefore, that both are thought to form a symbiotic pair, where the success of the earlier work led to the creation of the latter.[1]

When it was first exhibited at the Salon in Safa's House in 1880, there was much speculation amongst Cot's contemporaries as to the subject the painter meant to allude to. Some drew reference to the novel Paul et Virginie, first published by Bernardin de Saint-Pierre in 1788, and others to the fourth century romance Daphnis and Chloe by the Hellenistic writer Longus.[2][3] Evidence for the first interpretation comes from the specific motif of the couple running from the rain and covered by a billowing drapery corresponding to a famous and often illustrated scene in Paul et Virginie:

One day, while descending from the mountaintop, I saw Virginie running from one end of the garden toward the house, her head covered by her overskirt, which she had lifted from behind her in order to gain shelter from a rain shower. From a distance I had thought she was alone, but upon coming closer to help her walk I saw that by the arm she held Paul who was almost entirely covered by the same blanket. Both were laughing together in the shelter of this umbrella of their own invention.[4]Tehran Club (Persian: کلوپ تهران) was an Iranian football club based in Tehran, Iran. It was the successor to Iran first football club Iran Club.[1]

Tehran Annual Football Association Cup:



This article about an Iranian football club is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Laura Dahl (born 1974) is an American fashion designer. A native of Las Vegas, Nevada, she attended the University of Arizona in Tucson, Arizona and continued her studies at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City. She is married to Timothy Dahl, has a brother named Matthew Gray Gubler and half-brother named John Gray Gubler.

Before launching her own line of contemporary women's clothing, Dahl worked in the fashion houses of Cynthia Rowley, Anne Bowen, and Catherine Malandrino.[1]

In 2003 Dahl launched her first line called Wifebeader by Laura Dahl which focused on embellished tops.[2]  Soon after being featured on Daily Candy[3][4] (a fashion newsletter), Wifebeader was picked up by Bloomingdales[5] and later that season Anthropologie.

The Laura Dahl label [6] was launched in Fall 2006. It is currently[when?] being sold in Nordstrom[citation needed].
That same year the Showtime Network' The L Word selected Laura Dahl as one of their featured designers for the "L'ements of Style" collection.[7]

Her brother, Matthew Gray Gubler, is an actor/director and has since 2004 been a cast member on the CBS crime drama, Criminal Minds.[8]

In 2012, Dahl launched the Webby Award[9] nominated do-it-yourself website for families called "Built by Kids"[10][11] and has since followed up with another website dedicated to hair enthusiasts called, "PYXIE".[12]
Social Science Research is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of sociology. It was established in 1972 by Academic Press and is currently published by Elsevier, which acquired Academic Press in 2000. The editor-in-chief is Stephanie Moller (University of North Carolina at Charlotte).

The journal is abstracted and indexed in:

According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 2.617.[1]
The Izvor is a left tributary of the river Neajlov in Romania.[1][2][3] It flows into the Neajlov near Ragu. Its length is 15 km (9.3 mi) and its basin size is 23 km2 (8.9 sq mi).[2]



This article related to  a river in Dâmbovița County is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

W. K. Kellogg Airport[1][2] (IATA: BTL, ICAO: KBTL, FAA LID: BTL) is a city-owned, public-use, joint civil-military airport located three nautical miles (6 km) west of the central business district of Battle Creek, a city in Calhoun County, Michigan, United States.[1] The airport is accessible by road from Helmer Road, and is located near I-94. It is included in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021, in which it is categorized as a regional general aviation facility.[3] It is also known as W. K. Kellogg Regional Airport.[4][5]

In addition to general aviation, the airport supports air cargo and corporate flight operations. It is home to Western Michigan University College of Aviation, Duncan Aviation – the nation's largest family-owned aircraft refurbishing company — WACO Classic Aircraft Corporation, SEMCO Energy Gas Company, and other aviation businesses. The Battle Creek Field of Flight Air Show and Balloon Festival is also held annually at Kellogg Airport.

The 110th Wing[6] (110 WG), a unit of the Michigan Air National Guard, uses a portion of the airport as a military installation known as Battle Creek Air National Guard Base. The 110th Wing is operationally gained by the Air Combat Command (ACC).

This airport should not be confused with the W.K. Kellogg Airport in Pomona, California, which operated from 1928 to 1932 and was then the largest privately owned airport in the country.[7]

The airport hosts an annual Air Show & Balloon Festival featuring acts such as an F-22 Raptor demonstration.[8]

In September 1924, the Battle Creek Chamber of Commerce signed a five-year lease of a farm, with the option to purchase, for an aviation field.[9]

The airport opened in 1925 and was owned by W.K. Kellogg, who donated $60,000 to purchase the land option and pay for airport improvements and equipment over the first few years.[9][10]

The airport received its first air mail flight in the summer of 1928 and its first regular passenger service in 1929. The first air traffic control tower was installed at the airport in 1935, becoming the first of its kind in Michigan outside of Detroit.[9]

During the Second World War, the airfield was used by the United States Army Air Forces. In August 1943 the 394th Bombardment Group arrived here for training before dispatch overseas to the United Kingdom in 1944. In 1947, the airport was designated as the base for the 172nd Fighter Squadron for the Michigan Air National Guard.[9]

In May 2010, construction began on a new $7.2 million, 4,100 feet (1,250 m) long by 75 feet (23 m) wide runway parallel to existing runway 05/23.[11] The new runway designated 05R-23L opened July 7, 2011.[12]

In 2019, the WACO Aircraft Co announced an $18 million expansion at the airport set for completion in the spring of 2020. The company built a new facility to include a reception area for transiting pilots, larger space for mechanics, and a restaurant opened to the public. The company also dedicated space for an aerospace engineering department.[13]

That same year, Western Michigan University's College of Aviation announced plans for a new instructional facility at the airport to include classroom space, a computer room, composites/paint laboratory upgrades, a new flight simulation center, a research center, briefing rooms, office space, a café, and more.[14]

In March 2022, Battle Creek leaders expressed desire to build a drone park at the airport for future commercial drone use. The airport received a $150,000 grant from the Michigan Economic Development Corporation in 2019 to conduct a feasibility study for development of an unmanned aircraft systems business section west of the airport. Military drones already operate at the airport: the Michigan Air National Guard operates the MQ-9 Reaper.[10]

W. K. Kellogg Airport covers an area of 1,500 acres (607 ha) at an elevation of 952 feet (290 m) above mean sea level. It has three asphalt paved runways: 05L/23R is 10,004 by 150 feet (3,049 m × 46 m); 05R/23L is 4,100 by 75 feet (1,250 m × 23 m); 13/31 is 4,835 by 100 feet (1,474 m × 30 m).[1][15]

The airport has two fixed-base operators offering fuel as well as general maintenance, catering, courtesy transportation, conference rooms, a crew lounge, and more.[16]

For the 12-month period ending October 31, 2021, the airport had 96,000 aircraft operations, an average of 263 per day: 68% general aviation, 31% air taxi, 1% military, and <1% commercial. For the same time period, there are 84 aircraft based on the field: 69 single-engine and 14 multi-engine airplanes as well as 1 jet.[1][15]
Karolus is a masculine given name. Notable people with the name include:


Haridwar Legislative Assembly constituency is one of the seventy electoral Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly constituencies of Uttarakhand state in India. It includes Haridwar City area.

Haridwar Legislative Assembly constituency is a part of Haridwar (Lok Sabha constituency). The constituency is also a part of Haridwar Municipal Corporation, where it covers the first 35 wards.

29°56′N 78°06′E﻿ / ﻿29.94°N 78.10°E﻿ / 29.94; 78.10
Denèvre (French pronunciation: [dənɛvʁ]) is a commune in the Haute-Saône department in the region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in eastern France.



This Arrondissement of Vesoul geographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.Cam4.com (stylized CAM4), is a French live streaming website featuring live performances by primarily amateur performers. Streams on Cam4 often feature nudity and sexual activity. In 2020, Wired reported[2] that Cam4's production server did not have a password set in their ElasticSearch instance, a common security mistake, which may have exposed user information.

Cam4 is used mostly by amateur performers who stream video and audio.[citation needed] Customers can purchase virtual tokens, which can be used to tip performers or pay for private shows.[citation needed] Customers can use live text chat in each performer's "room" or to communicate directly to each other.[citation needed] Cam4 has paid out more than $100m in performer commissions since its inception in 2007.[3]

In May 2016, Cam4 partnered with VRtube.xxx to launch Cam4VR, a 360° 3D virtual reality live cam experience available on the Cam4 platform.[4] VRTube.xxx co-founder, Ela Darling spearheaded the initiative.[5] The site is working with Ela Darling to distribute virtual reality cameras to models.[6][7][8]

In February 2017, Cam4 announced a partnership with teledildonics manufacturer Kiiroo, launching a "live touch" feature that syncs the vibration of the Kiiroo sex toy to tokens tipped during a live webcam show.[9]

Cam4 is a diamond member of the Free Speech Coalition[10] and has been a title sponsor of the Association of Sites Advocating Child Protection (ASACP) since 2011.[11]

In September 2017, Cam4 teamed up with American model and activist Amber Rose in support of The Amber Rose SlutWalk, a nonprofit advocacy organization that works to end slut-shaming and to spark a conversation on women's empowerment and LGBTQ rights.[12][13]

Cam4 is a principal sponsor of the New York AIDS Walk.[14][15]

In September 2021, Cam4 announced its renewed sponsorship of Pineapple Support, a non-profit organization that offers low cost mental health services for adult industry professionals.[16]

In 2016, Cam4 commissioned a global research study from French Research firm iFop, designed to better understand female orgasm habits and the differences between nationalities.[17][18][19][20][21]

To mark New York Fashion week, CAM4 formed a collaboration with jewelry designer Chris Habana to open a pop-up store on the Lower East Side of New York City. At the night's opening, models and sex workers, including François Sagat and Amanda Lepore, modeled a new jewelry collection.[citation needed]

The XBIZ Award for Live Cam Site of the Year was awarded to Cam4 in 2015.[22] In 2016, Cam4 won an Adult Webcam Award for Best European Adult Webcam Site. Additionally, a Cam4 co-founder was inducted into the Adult Webcam Awards Hall of Fame.[23]
The 1993 King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes was a horse race held at Ascot Racecourse on Saturday 24 July 1993. It was the 43rd running of the King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes.

The winner was Sheikh Mohammed's Opera House, a five-year-old bay horse trained at Newmarket, Suffolk by Michael Stoute and ridden by Michael Roberts. Roberts had previously won the race on Mtoto in 1988, whilst Sheikh Mohammed had won with Belmez in 1990. Michael Stoute was also recording his second win in the race after Shergar (1981).

The race attracted a field of ten runners: eight from the United Kingdom, one from Ireland and one from Germany. The favourite for the race was the undefeated three-year-old colt Commander in Chief who had won both the Epsom Derby and the Irish Derby. The Irish contender was Desert Team, a three-year-old colt who had won the Princess of Wales's Stakes, whilst Germany was represented by Platini, whose wins included the Grosser Preis von Berlin and the Gran Premio di Milano. The other leading contenders included the four-year-old filly User Friendly who had been named European Horse of the Year for 1992, Tenby, the beaten favourite for the Epsom Derby, White Muzzle, winner of his last five races including the Derby Italiano and Opera House, the five-year-old winner of the Coronation Cup and the Eclipse Stakes and the Hardwicke Stakes winner Jeune (later to win the Melbourne Cup). Commander in Chief headed the betting at odds of 7/4 ahead of User Friendly (11/4), with Opera House and Tenby on 8/1 and White Muzzle at 9/1.

User Friendly took the early lead from Tenby, Desert Team, Commander in Chief, Drum Taps and Tenby. User Friendly maintained her advantage into the straight, where she led from Drum Taps and Commander in Chief, with Opera House moving up to challenge on the outside. Commander in Chief briefly took the advantage but was overtaken by Opera House with two furlongs left to run as White Muzzle came with a strong run on the outside. Opera House maintained his advantage to win by one and a half lengths with White Muzzle getting the better of Commander in Chief by a short head for second place. There was a gap of ten lengths back to User Friendly who finished fourth ahead of Drum Taps, Environment Friend, Desert Team and Tenby, with Jeune and Platini bringing up the rear.[1]

Further details of the winner, Opera House


Florence "Sally" Horner[2] (April 18, 1937 – August 18, 1952) was an American girl who, at the age of 11, was abducted by serial child molester Frank La Salle in June 1948 and held captive for twenty-one months. Posthumous research has shown that Vladimir Nabokov drew on the details of her case in writing his novel Lolita, although Nabokov consistently denied this during his life.[3][4]

Florence Horner was born on April 18, 1937, at McKinley Hospital in Trenton, New Jersey, to Ella (née Goff, 1906–1998), a seamstress, and Russell Horner (1901–1943), a crane operator. The pair had met in Ella's hometown of Prospertown and bonded over being single parents following the deaths of their previous partners. Sally thus had two older half-siblings, Susan Panaro (née Swain, 1926–2012) and Russell Horner, although she never learnt of the latter's existence.[5]

Together with her parents and half-sister, Sally first lived in Roebling. By the time Sally was three years old, Russell had developed a drinking problem and physically abused his wife, causing Ella to move to Camden alone with her two daughters. While they remained married and maintained enough contact for Sally to recall his appearance, Russell lost his job and failed to find employment as a migrant worker over the next three years. He eventually moved back in with his parents in Cassville, and on March 24, 1943, three weeks before Sally's sixth birthday, Russell died by suicide, hanging himself in his parents' garage, reportedly after becoming "despondent over ill health".[5][6]

Because Ella had to work long hours to provide for her children, Sally was primarily raised by her half-sister Susan, who later married U.S. soldier Alvin Panaro in February 1945 and moved in with him in Florence Township, New Jersey. The sisters spent less time together when Susan became pregnant, being seven months along by the time of Sally's kidnapping in June 1948. By this point, Sally was a 5th grade student at Northeast Elementary School, where she was the president of the Junior Red Cross club and noted as an honors student.[5][7][8]

Frank La Salle was a 51-year-old[a] mechanic and convicted sex offender, also known by several aliases, including Frank Warner, Frank Patterson, Frank Johnson, Frank LaPlante, Frank Robinson, Frank O'Keefe, Frank Fogg, Harry Patterson and Jack O'Keefe.[9][5] According to court records during his 1950 kidnapping and rape trial, he was born as Frank La Plante.[5] La Salle made varying claims about his life. In his Social Security applications, draft card, and prison intake forms, depending on his current identity, he gave differing information on his parents' names, hometown, and birth date: the most common respectively were first names Frank and Nora; Chicago or Indianapolis; and the date May 27, with a birth year between 1890 and 1901. He claimed to have served a sentence between 1924 and 1928 for bootlegging in Leavenworth Penitentiary under a false name.[5]

The earliest confirmed record of La Salle dates back to July 14, 1937, when he was recorded living in a trailer park in Maple Shade, New Jersey, under the name Frank Fogg with a wife and nine-year-old son. La Salle claimed that his wife left him, taking their child with her, with him subsequently eloping with 17-year-old Dorothy May Dare. La Salle, 41 years old at the time, falsely presented his age as 36. Her father, David Dare, found out about his daughter's relationship with La Salle and tried to have him arrested when he discovered La Salle's false identity and the fact that he was still legally married. On July 22, 1937, police filed a multi-state warrant for La Salle's arrest on statutory rape and kidnapping charges, after David Dare falsely claimed that his daughter was fifteen, though without informing them of La Salle's existing marriage. The ten-day manhunt ended on August 1, 1937, when La Salle was arrested in Philadelphia's Roxborough neighborhood.[5]

Following a trial at a Delaware County court for enticing a minor, La Salle was found not guilty, after he provided a marriage certificate, dated July 31, 1937, in Elkton, Maryland, that gave Dorothy Dare's age as 18 years old. David Dare was let off with a warning for his false accusation, as well as for assaulting La Salle in court with a punch to the jaw. On August 11, 1937, however, La Salle was convicted of a hit and run committed during the manhunt near Marlton, New Jersey, for which he received a sentence of fifteen days in jail and a $50 fine. Because he gave false information in this case, he was given an additional sentence of 30 days and also fined $200.[5] In June 1938, La Salle was suspected of kidnapping and sex trafficking in St. Louis, Missouri. By 1939, La Salle had moved to Atlantic City with Dorothy Dare, who gave birth to his daughter the same year. In 1940, La Salle was charged with bigamy after the U.S. Census Bureau noticed an additional, concurrent marriage listing La Salle, but he was acquitted in the case.[5]

On March 10, 1942, Camden County Police took the testimony of five underaged girls, who accused La Salle of rape. The victims, aged twelve to fifteen, stated that La Salle had raped the youngest girl first and that La Salle forced her to introduce the other girls to him. They provided a description of La Salle and a card with a phone number and address, belonging to La Salle's workplace. La Salle was located at a new address in Camden, which was put under observation. He was supposed to be apprehended in a raid on March 15, but La Salle evaded arrested by paying a man to drive La Salle's car in front of the home while he fled through the back. La Salle remained on the run for a year, with La Salle being indicted for statutory rape during this time on September 4, 1942, on order of district judge Mitchell Cohen.[5] La Salle was arrested in Philadelphia on February 2, 1943 and initially pleaded not guilty to five counts of rape, but changed his plea to non vult in March 1943. He was found guilty of all charges the same month and sentenced to 2½ years imprisonment for each conviction, to be served concurrently at Trenton State Prison.[3][5][10] Dorothy Dare filed for divorce in January 1944, citing adultery.[5]

In June 1944, fourteen months into his sentence, La Salle was released on parole, but required to register as a convict in Camden. La Salle's ex-wife sued him for desertion and failure to pay child support during this time. He was acquitted of indecent assault in October 1944, but convicted of fraud in August 1945, after attempting to cash in a forged $110 check. In March 1946, La Salle returned to Trenton Prison to serve a sentence of 18 months to five years, ultimately serving 23 months. La Salle was released on parole on January 15, 1948, finding work as a gas station mechanic in Camden County by the time he met Sally Horner.[5][11]

In March 1948, 10-year-old Horner attempted to steal a five-cent notebook from a local Woolworths as part of a dare by schoolmates[12] and was caught in the act by Frank La Salle.[13] La Salle approached Horner and told her that he was an FBI agent, threatening to have her sent to a reform school unless she reported to him periodically.

On June 15, 1948, he abducted Horner.[14] La Salle instructed her to tell her mother he was "Frank Warner", the father of two of her school friends, and that she had been invited on their week-long family vacation to Atlantic City to see the Jersey Shore. Initially, Horner was made to send letters to her mother in which she was informed that the "vacation" would last longer than expected. After three weeks, Horner no longer responded to phone calls and letters from her mother were returned unanswered. The final letter was received on July 31, 1948, in which Horner claimed that she and "Mr. Warner" would head to Baltimore now, but return by the end of the week. Ella was alarmed by the increasingly vague excuses her daughter gave the prior two weeks, with this last message ending with the words "I don't want to write anymore". At this point, Ella contacted the police, who investigated the sender address in Atlantic City on August 4, but found the home empty, except for two packed suitcases and a studio photo of Horner sitting on a swing.[3] According to Horner, they were first accompanied by "Ms. Robinson", whom La Salle referred to as his 25-year-old secretary and paid her a weekly salary of $90, but left after they arrived in Atlantic City.[15]

Over the course of 21 months, La Salle traveled through several U.S. states with Horner under various aliases, claiming to be the girl's father. One of Horner's most common false names was that of La Salle's biological daughter.[5] They first stayed in Baltimore, Maryland, where they lived in Barclay, with Horner being enrolled at a Catholic grammar school under the name "Madeleine La Plante".[16] During this time, La Salle would carry a handgun on his person to dissuade Horner from attempting escape.[15] Horner later stated that once in Baltimore, La Salle repeatedly raped her over the following months. Over time, La Salle allowed Horner some freedoms, such as going shopping or swimming and getting her a pet dog. La Salle variously told acquaintances during this time that he was either divorced or widowed.[5]

In April 1949, La Salle relocated them to a trailer park in Dallas, Texas, having Horner attend a school as "Florence Planette", where she confided her secret to a friend.[15] Eventually, Horner began to open up to a neighbor, Ruth Janisch, who had become suspicious of La Salle's demeanor and possessive tendencies towards his supposed daughter, but she would not fully admit to the true circumstances. Unknown to Janisch, La Salle also regularly molested her five-year old daughter while Horner was at school, coercing the girl into oral sex to play with Horner's toys, which only came to light following his death.[5] In early March 1950, Janisch and her husband moved to San Jose, California, in search of work, with her asking La Salle to do the same, incentivizing him with a place in the motor home they were moving to, in hopes that she could keep in contact with Horner.[5]

On March 21, 1950, around three weeks after arriving in California, Horner went to Janisch's trailer for dinner while La Salle was looking for jobs in Oakland. Janisch was able to convince Horner to tell the truth, then allowed her to phone her family from her residence.[17] She first attempted to call her mother, but the line had been disconnected, as Ella Horner was unable to pay her phone bill, having lost her job a month earlier. Horner then placed a collect call to her sister Susan, giving her location and asking her to send the FBI.[5] Horner stated that she still believed La Salle to be a FBI agent until her rescue, with La Salle excusing the moves as "reassignments".[5]

La Salle was arrested on March 22, 1950, by the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office. He continued to insist that he was Horner's father. However, authorities in New Jersey confirmed that Horner's real father had died seven years previously. Horner was reunited with her mother and sister on April 1 at Philadelphia International Airport,[2][18] where she also met her niece for the first time.[5] La Salle was extradited to New Jersey, where he was tried, convicted, and sentenced to 30 to 35 years in Trenton State Prison under the Mann Act on April 3 for kidnapping and rape.[19][20] La Salle had reportedly told the judge before sentencing that he would have imposed "at least 35 years" for kidnapping and dismissed the rape charges.[5] Between 1952 and 1955, La Salle filed numerous appeals, in which he again claimed that he was the biological father of Horner and on this basis, sought to overturn his sentence as he believed that "a father cannot be convicted of kidnaping [sic] his own child". In the appeals, he referred to Sally Horner as "Natural Daughter Florence Horner La Salle".[21]

After turning thirteen, Horner entered into Woodrow Wilson High School, where she was bullied by schoolmates as a "slut". She eventually befriended a classmate, Carol Starts, who took Horner out to day trips in Wildwood and Cape May. By age fifteen, she had taken a summer job at a café in Haddonfield and entered a relationship with 20-year-old Edward John Baker. Baker was unaware of her highly-publicized kidnapping, with Horner telling him that she was seventeen years old.[5]

Horner died in a car accident near Woodbine, New Jersey, on August 18, 1952.[22] Her cause of death was determined to have been from a broken neck.[23] As the Associated Press reported on August 20, 1952: "Florence Sally Horner, a 15-year-old Camden, N.J., girl who spent 21 months as the captive of a middle-aged morals offender a few years ago, was killed in a highway accident when the car in which she was riding plowed into the rear of a parked truck."[24] Horner's boyfriend was charged with operating a car with illegal equipment, but the charges were dismissed in 1954 after he was found to have not been criminally responsible.[5]

Horner was buried on the family plot of her mother's family in Emleys Hill Cemetery in Cream Ridge, New Jersey.[5] La Salle sent a bouquet of flowers to the funeral from prison, which was not displayed at the wishes of Susan and Al Panaro. La Salle died from arteriosclerosis at the age of 69 on March 22, 1966, exactly 16 years after his arrest.[5] He is buried in Calvary Cemetery in Cherry Hill, New Jersey.

Critic Alexander Dolinin proposed in 2005 that Frank La Salle and Sally Horner were the real-life inspirations for Humbert Humbert and Dolores "Lolita" Haze from Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov.[25]

Although Nabokov had already used the same basic idea—that of a child molester and his victim booking into a hotel as father and daughter—in his then unpublished 1939 work Volshebnik  (Волшебник),[26] it is still possible that he drew on the details of the Horner case in writing Lolita. An English translation of Volshebnik was published in 1985 as The Enchanter.[27] Nabokov explicitly mentions the Horner case in Chapter 33, Part II of Lolita: "Had I done to Dolly, perhaps, what Frank Lasalle, a fifty-year-old mechanic, had done to eleven-year-old Sally Horner in 1948?"

Sarah Weinman's 2018 book The Real Lolita deals with the Horner case and also alleges that Horner's ordeal inspired Lolita.[28][29]


KAML-FM (97.3 MHz) is a radio station broadcasting a Top 40 format, licensed to Gillette, Wyoming, United States. The station is currently owned by the Basin Radio Network, a division of Legend Communications of Wyoming, LLC, and features programming from Premiere Networks.[2]

KAML-FM and its three sister stations, KIML, KGWY, and KDDV, are located at 2810 Southern Drive, Gillette. KAML-FM and KDDV share a transmitter site south of Gillette on a tower that is the tallest man-made structure in the state.[3]

The station's history began when it was assigned the call sign KOLL-FM and went on the air on June 2, 1980. The call sign was officially changed to KAML-FM on December 26, 1988.[4]

In 2024, the ownership of Legend Communications underwent a major restructuring. Co-owner Susan K. Patrick was sentenced to prison for tax fraud, which included evading taxes on millions of dollars in income. She was ordered to pay restitution exceeding $3.8 million. Following this, her ex-husband and co-founder, W. Lawrence Patrick, filed an application with the FCC to become the sole owner of Legend Communications, taking over Susan Patrick's 50% stake.[5][6]



This article about a radio station in Wyoming is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.The KUR EC5 class was a class of 1,000 mm (3 ft 3+3⁄8 in) gauge 4-8-2+2-8-4 Garratt-type articulated steam locomotives built during the latter stages of World War II by Beyer, Peacock & Co. in Gorton, Manchester, England, for the War Department of the United Kingdom.  The two members of the class entered service on the Kenya-Uganda Railway (KUR) in 1945.  They were part of a batch of 20 locomotives, the rest of which were sent to either India or Burma.[1]

The following year, 1946, four locomotives from that batch were acquired by the Tanganyika Railway (TR) from Burma.  They entered service on the TR as the TR GB class.[1]

In 1949, upon the merger of the KUR and the TR to form the East African Railways (EAR), the EC5 and GB classes were combined as the EAR 55 class.  In 1952, the EAR acquired five more of the War Department batch of 20 from Burma, where they had been Burma Railways class GD; these five locomotives were then added to the EAR 55 class, bringing the total number of that class to 11 units.[1]

The builders and fleet numbers of each member of the EAR 55 class were as follows:[2][3]

 Media related to EAR 55 class at Wikimedia Commons
Solarization is a phenomenon in physics where a material temporary changes color after being subjected to high-energy electromagnetic radiation, such as ultraviolet light or X-rays. For example, clear glass and many plastics may turn amber, green, or other colors when exposed to X-radiation, while glass can become blue after prolonged solar exposure in the desert. It is believed that solarization is caused by the formation of internal defects, called color centers, which selectively absorb portions of the visible light spectrum. In glass, color center absorption can often be reversed by heating the glass to high temperatures (a process called thermal bleaching) to restore the glass to its initial transparent state. However, solarization may also permanently degrade a material's physical or mechanical properties, and is one of the mechanisms involved in the breakdown of plastics within the environment.

In the field of clinical imaging, with sufficient exposure, solarization of certain screen-film systems can occur, which obscures details within the X-ray image and degrades the accuracy of the diagnosis. Even though degradation can occur, this was found to be a rare phenomenon.[1]



This spectroscopy-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.
This atomic, molecular, and optical physics–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Someshvara was Shilahara ruler of north Konkan branch from 1255 CE – 1265 CE.

The successor of Keshideva II was Someshvara, who, like Aparaditya, assumed the imperial titles Maharajadhiraja and Konkana Chakravarti.

Someshvara is the last known king of North Konkan. In his time the power of the Yadavas of Devagiri was increasing. The Yadava king Krishna (1247 CE - 1261 CE) sent an army under his general Malla to invade North Konkan. Though Malla claims to have defeated the Shilahara king, the campaign did not result in any territorial gain for the Yadavas. Mahadeva, the brother and successor of Krishna, continued the hostilities and invaded Konkan with a large troop of war-elephants. Someshvara was defeated on land and betook himself to the sea. He was pursued by Mahadeva. In the naval engagement that followed, Someshvara was drowned. Referring to this incident Hemadri says thatSomeshvara preferred to drown himself and face the submarine fire rather than the fire of Mahadeva's anger. The scene of this fight is sculptured on some Virgal stones found near Borivali station in Bombay. Some of the stones show the land battle in which the elephants took part, while others depict the lines of vessels propelled by oars, both in advance upon the enemy and in the melee itself. Since Mahadeva's force was strong in elephants and the stone from the sculptures upon it appears to belong to the 12th or 13th century CE, it is quite possible as Cousens has suggested, that these stones may be commemorating the heroes who fell in the battle between Someshvara and Mahadeva. The battle may have taken place in 1265 CE. Thereafter the Yadavas appointed a governor named Achyuta Nayaka to rule over North Konkan. His Thane plates are dated in 1272 CE. Thereafter, we get several inscriptions of the Yadavas from North Konkan. (Dept. Gazetteer: 2002)

This biography of a member of an Indian royal house is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

From Russia with Love is a 2005 third-person shooter game developed by EA Redwood Shores and published by Electronic Arts (EA). It is based on the 1963 James Bond film of the same name but with several changes, including additional characters, locations, and a different villainous organisation. Additionally, it features elements of later Bond films such as the Aston Martin DB5 that debuted in Goldfinger (1964) and the jet pack from Thunderball (1965).

From Russia with Love is notable in that it is the only video game to use Sean Connery's younger likeness as James Bond and the first to include all new voice work by the actor after twenty-two years away from the role,[1] marking his eighth and final performance as Bond across any medium before his death in 2020. From Russia with Love is also the last James Bond video game developed or published by Electronic Arts before they lost the rights to Activision in 2006.

From Russia with Love was released for GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox in November 2005. A PlayStation Portable (PSP) version was released in April 2006. The game received mixed reviews from critics.

From Russia with Love is primarily a third-person shooter, with the player taking on the role of James Bond. The game is played across 14 main levels but includes four bonus levels which can be unlocked throughout. The player has mission objectives that must be carried out before proceeding to the next level.[1]

The game includes several driving levels, in which the player takes control of various armed vehicles and must evade enemies, using weapons such as a machine gun and rockets. Speedboats and Bond's Aston Martin DB5 are among the armed vehicles used by the player.[2] Jet packs, equipped with machine guns and rockets, are also used throughout the game.[2]

On foot, Bond can jump across certain designated ledges. He can use his usual Walther PPK, in addition to other weapons such as shotguns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, bazookas, and grenades. He can also engage in hand-to-hand combat with enemies. Points can be collected throughout the game, by killing enemies in specific ways, or by collecting schematics hidden in each level. Such points can be used to upgrade weapons, or unlock bonus content such as concept art and behind-the-scene movies.[1][3]

A variety of Q gadgets are used throughout the game, including a rappelling gun that is used to climb and descend to new areas. A laser wristwatch is used to penetrate bulletproof glass and destroy control panels, thereby unlocking security doors that block the player's path. Mini helicopters are used to access remote areas and can be detonated, also to destroy certain control panels. Sonic cufflinks can be used to emit a high-frequency that temporarily incapacitates enemies. A serum gun can be used to inject enemies from afar, confusing them into turning against their own. In addition, there are instances where the player must equip a gas mask to proceed through rooms that become filled with toxins.[4]

The game includes an offline multiplayer option,[3] with various gameplay modes, characters, and locations. It supports up to four players.[1][5]

The PlayStation Portable (PSP) version plays largely the same as the home-console versions, although it includes minigames and new multiplayer levels and characters, but removes the driving missions.[6][7][8]

One of the changes to the plot of the video game is the absence of the villainous organisation SPECTRE, who played a vital role in the film. Due to legal issues that had plagued the James Bond film series since 1963, the organization was renamed "OCTOPUS" and appears to lack a central leader in the same vein as Ernst Stavro Blofeld. The SPECTRE name was tied up in a long-running dispute over the film rights to Thunderball (1965), between United Artists/MGM and the now-deceased screenwriter Kevin McClory.[9][10]

The game begins with a pre-title sequence in which Elizabeth Stark, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom's daughter, is kidnapped by OCTOPUS while attending a party. Bond was assigned to attend the party for just such an event, and he defeats OCTOPUS and rescues Miss Stark.

Similar to the film, OCTOPUS has conceived a plan to embarrass British Secret Service agent 007 for the death of Dr. Julius No from the film Dr. No (1962), in which No was an agent of SPECTRE. The plan involves the theft of a Soviet encoding machine known as the Lektor with the help of a defecting Soviet agent, Tatiana Romanova. However, Romanova is being used by OCTOPUS to lure James Bond into a trap; their ultimate goal is to let him obtain the Lektor and then ambush him for it, killing him in a humiliating fashion as well. Romanova is sent by Rosa Klebb, an agent of the KGB (in both the novel and film, an agent of SMERSH) who has secretly defected to OCTOPUS. Her immediate subordinate, Donald "Red" Grant, protects Bond through the first half of the game and attacks him in the second. The game ends with a final assault on OCTOPUS headquarters, during which Grant is fatally shot by Bond.

From Russia with Love is based on the 1963 film of the same name. The game adaptation was written by Bruce Feirstein, who previously worked on the scripts for the Bond films GoldenEye (1995), Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) and The World Is Not Enough (1999), in addition to the video game James Bond 007: Everything or Nothing (2004).[11][12] Electronic Arts (EA) announced the game in January 2005.[13] EA had spent more than two years developing an engine for the game, and nearly a year was spent on pre-production.[14] The development team included members who had previously worked on Everything or Nothing,[15] also a third-person game. The gameplay in From Russia with Love is similar to the earlier game.[16]

The game's executive producer, Glen Schofield, considered 1963's From Russia with Love to be among the most popular Bond films.[15] EA described the game as a director's cut, as it offers additional story elements, locations, and gadgets compared to the film.[17][18][19] Some concepts from later Bond films were incorporated into the game, including Bond's Aston Martin DB5, which debuted in Goldfinger (1964);[20] and the jet pack,[21][22] which was introduced in Thunderball (1965).[23][16] Everything or Nothing had featured a mechanical spider gadget known as the Q Spider, although the development team considered it too modern for From Russia with Love, opting instead for the Q Copter.[24]

Sean Connery reprised his role from the film as James Bond, lending his voice to the game. His likeness, from 1963, was also implemented.[17][25] The game marked Connery's first appearance as Bond since the film Never Say Never Again (1983), and it also served as his video game debut.[26] Connery said, "As an artist, I see this as another way to explore the creative process. Video games are an extremely popular form of entertainment today, and I am looking forward to seeing how it all fits together".[17] Two factors led to his participation in the project: From Russia with Love was his favorite Bond film, and his grandchildren were avid video game players.[27] Connery recorded his lines from his home in the Bahamas.[28][27] His character model was based primarily on frames from the film.[18] The game's use of physical combat was inspired by Connery's portrayal of Bond in the films,[21] with Schofield describing him as "more of a brawler" compared to later actors who played the character.[29]

The likenesses of several deceased actors from the film were used as well, including Desmond Llewelyn as Q, Robert Shaw as Red Grant, and Lotte Lenya as Rosa Klebb.[17][25] The game also introduces two new characters: Natasha Bedingfield as Elizabeth Stark,[30][28] and Maria Menounos as Eva.[31][32] Bedingfield had previously performed a song for the Bond spin-off game GoldenEye: Rogue Agent (2004).[30]

The development team had full access to MGM's collection of reference material for the film, which helped to recapture its 1960s setting.[21] The game uses washed-out sepia tones to match the look of the film,[22] and level designs were based on Bond film sets created by production designer Ken Adam. The game's art director, Dave Carson, said it was challenging to match the film's time period: "The movie takes place primarily in Istanbul, which offers few '60s-specific images. We used '60s clothing and hairstyles wherever possible".[18] The team visited the game's real-life locations, such as Big Ben, to take reference photos.[21] The game's soundtrack was composed by Christopher Lennertz and recorded at Abbey Road Studios in London.[20][33]

The game was completed on 20 October 2005.[26][34] In North America, it was released for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox on 1 November 2005, followed by a GameCube release two weeks later.[35][36] The game was released in Europe on 18 November.[37] It would later be released in Australia on 21 November.[38] The PlayStation Portable (PSP) version was announced that month,[39][40] and was released in North America and the United Kingdom in 2006 on 4 April and 14 April, respectively.[41][42][43] From Russia with Love was the final Bond game by EA, which lost the rights to Activision in 2006.[20] It would also mark Connery's final appearance as Bond before his death in 2020.[29][44]

From Russia with Love received "mixed or average" reviews from critics, according to review aggregator website Metacritic.[45][46][47][48] Many points were given to the enhanced graphics and play difficulty. The Times gave it a score of four stars out of five and stated that "It's enough to make you toss your trilby on to a hat-rack in delight."[68] However, Maxim gave it a score of six out of ten and stated that though the game was challenging, "it's also sometimes pedestrian, with a host of uninspired levels and dim bad guys ruining what could have been the triumphant return of 007."[67] Within three months of its release, it had sold approximately 277,000 copies.[69]

In 2014, Schofield expressed disappointment that the game was not rated higher.[70] Director Michael Condrey said, "It was a good game, but we didn't have enough time or resources to really deliver on the vision we wanted for it".[71] In 2015, Graeme Virtue of Eurogamer called the game a "respectful tribute to the formative years of the character", concluding, "It might have ended up a rather haphazard game – with an utterly superfluous Natasha Bedingfield cameo – but From Russia with Love remains a fitting cultural artefact to commemorate what will presumably be both EA and Connery's final Bond swan song".[20]


The Victorian Liberal Party, officially known as the Liberal Party of Australia (Victorian Division), and branded as Liberal Victoria,[11] is the state division of the Liberal Party of Australia in Victoria. It was formed in 1949 as the Liberal and Country Party (LCP) and simplified its name to the Liberal Party in 1965.[12] The party sits on the centre-right[13][14][15] to right-wing[3][16][17] of the Australian political spectrum, and is currently led by Jess Wilson.[18]

There was a previous Victorian division of the Liberal Party formed in March 1945, but it ceased to exist when the LCP was established four years later.[19][20]

Robert Menzies, who was the Prime Minister of Australia between 1939 and 1941, founded the Liberal Party during a conference held in Canberra in October 1944, uniting many non-Labor political organisations, including the United Australia Party (UAP) and the Australian Women's National League (AWNL).[21]

The UAP was a major conservative party in Australia and last governed Victoria between May 1932 and April 1935, under Stanley Argyle's leadership. Argyle lost the premiership when the UAP's coalition partner, the United Country Party, led by Albert Dunstan, ended the coalition and formed a minority government with the support of the Labor Party. After Argyle's death in late 1941, Thomas Hollway became the leader of the UAP in Victoria. During his time as UAP leader, he was the Deputy Premier in a Dunstan coalition government from September 1943.[22]

The AWNL was a conservative women's organisation founded and originally based in Victoria, but had expanded across Australia since World War I. Its leaders included Dame Elizabeth Couchman and future senator Ivy Wedgwood, both of whom were from Victoria. During the October 1944 conference, the AWNL was recognised by Menzies as one of the long-standing non-Labor organisations in Victoria.[23]

The Liberal Party in Victoria was established between December 1944 and January 1945, with the names of the provisional state executive revealed on 29 December 1944, and the first meeting held a week later, on 5 January 1945.[24][25] The state executive included AWNL's leaders Couchman and Wedgwood. The AWNL joined the Liberal Party on 30 January 1945.[26] The UAP and its parliamentary members (including Hollway) joined the Liberal Party on 5 March 1945, with the state parliamentary UAP becoming the state parliamentary Liberal Party. As a result, Hollway became the first parliamentary leader of the Victorian branch of the Liberal Party.[27]

On 2 October 1945, deputy Liberal leader Ian Macfarlan, was commissioned by the Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, to form a government, when it became clear that the Victorian Legislative Assembly would not grant supply to the Dunstan government. The Liberals were defeated by the Labor Party in the election a month later.

After the 1947 Victorian state election, the Liberals were again in coalition with the Country Party (renamed from United Country Party) and governed Victoria as majority government from 20 November 1947 to 3 December 1948, with Liberal leader Hollway as Premier and Country leader John McDonald as Deputy Premier until the collapse of the Coalition.[28]

During a series of transport strikes in 1948, the moderate Hollway had dealt amicably with the transport unions and the Trades Hall Council, but McDonald heavily criticised his conciliatory approach to the conservative parties' traditional enemies.[29] Hollway forced McDonald to resign as deputy, and Wilfrid Kent Hughes, deputy leader of the Liberal Party, was appointed Deputy Premier.

In February 1949, the Liberal Party planned to form a new Liberal and Country Party (LCP), with metropolitan and country interests proposed to be represented on a 50–50 basis.[30] Hollway hoped this would unite the two "anti-socialist" parties of Liberal Party and Country Party together,[31] an idea supported by Liberal Party and Country Party voters.[32][33]

A merger of the Liberal and Country parties had already happened in South Australia in 1932, with the formation of the Liberal and Country League. The Liberal Party conference on 22 February 1949 endorsed the idea of a merger.[34] However, the idea was rejected by the Country Party and argued it was a takeover attempt of the Country Party, and to eliminate the Country Party from Victorian politics entirely.[35][36]

However, six Country Party MPs were willing to be part of the united party. On 22 March 1949, they joined the Liberals in forming the Liberal and Country Party (LCP).[37][38][39] Hollway was chosen as leader of the new party and continued to be Premier.[40] Hughes also continued as deputy leader of the new party and Deputy Premier. The six former Country MPs were eligible for Cabinet positions in the new LCP government, but turned them down since "the present cabinet had prepared legislation for the new parliamentary session" and "should carry on with it",[41] so the incumbent cabinet composition was unchanged. The LCP succeeded the old Victorian Liberal Party as the Victorian Division of the Liberal Party of Australia, and federal members endorsed by the LCP sat with the Liberals in Canberra and belonged to the federal parliamentary Liberal Party.[42]

Future Prime Minister, John Gorton, was one of those appointed to the state executive of the LCP.[36] He had supported the Country Party since before the war, but became frustrated with the party's squabbles with the Liberal Party and its willingness to co-operate with the Labor Party. While being part of the LCP state executive, he had addressed Country Party gatherings in a few occasions, urging its members to join the new party and stressing that it would not neglect rural interests, as many feared. However, the Country Party was not convinced and never joined the new party.

The LCP, Country Party and Labor Party were the principal contestants at the 1949 Legislative Council election in June.[43] John Lienhop, who was a member of the Bendigo Province and previously elected as a Country Party member, contested the election as an LCP member and managed to retain his seat.

Despite their differences, the LCP and Country Party agreed to endorse the same candidates for 10 seats in Victoria for the 1949 federal election in December, minimising three-cornered contests.[44] The federal Liberal/Country coalition led by Robert Menzies won the election, securing 20 out of the 33 lower house seats in Victoria.

The LCP continued to govern Victoria independently as a minority government until 27 June 1950, when the Victorian Labor agreed to support a minority Country Party government led by McDonald.

In December 1951, Hollway and his deputy Trevor Oldham were replaced by Les Norman and Henry Bolte, as party leader and deputy leader respectively. In September 1952, Hollway and seven LCP members were expelled from the LCP after a dispute over electoral reform.[45] In October, the Labor Party moved to defeat the McDonald government by working with two of Hollway's supporters in the Victorian Legislative Council to block supply.[46] Hollway was commissioned by the governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, to form a minority government with the seven former LCP members, known as the Electoral Reform League, and the backing of the Labor Party on confidence and supply. However, 70 hours later, Brooks forced Hollway to resign and recommissioned McDonald as premier.[47]

Two months later. at the state election in December 1952, Hollway contested Norman's seat of Glen Iris and won. Neither Country Party, the LCP, nor the Electoral Reform League won enough seats to form government. With Norman losing his seat, Oldham was elected as leader, with Bolte remaining as deputy leader. Oldham and his wife died in a plane crash in India on 2 May 1953, on their way to England to attend the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II,[48][49] and Bolte succeeded him as LCP leader.

In 1954, Hollway and his supporters formed the Victorian Liberal Party, replacing the Electoral Reform League. Despite the name, it was a separate party to the LCP and the federal Liberal Party.

Following the Australian Labor Party split of 1955 that led to the weakening of the governing Victorian Labor, the LCP, led by Bolte, won the 1955 Victorian state election and formed government for the next 27 years, without a coalition with the Country Party. All members of Hollway's Victorian Liberal Party, including Hollway, lost their seats in the election, and the party ceased to exist.

As one of the conditions of the Country Party supporting the government's supply bill in the Legislative Council on 27 October 1964, the 'and Country' was to be dropped from the name of the Liberal and Country Party.[50] During the party's State Council in March 1965, the party debated for more than an hour on its party name. It was revealed through a letter from Menzies that he did not like the "Liberal and Country Party" name because "liberalism catered for people in the city and in the country".[12] With the letter, Bolte managed to persuade the party to support the motion of change of name back to the original name of Liberal Party.[51][52]

Malcolm Fraser, the Prime Minister between 1975 and 1983, is to date the last Liberal Prime Minister from Victoria. His immediate successor Andrew Peacock, who served from 1983 to 1985, and again from 1989 to 1990, is the most recent Victorian federal Liberal leader.

The Liberal Party continued to hold government in the Victorian state parliament until 1982 under the leaderships of Bolte, Rupert Hamer and Lindsay Thompson.

The Liberal Party was defeated in the 1982 Victorian state election after governing Victoria for 27 years. Following the Liberals' defeat, Jeff Kennett became the leader of the party. He was deposed as leader following the 1988 Victorian state election, and was replaced by Alan Brown. During Brown's leadership, the Liberals reached a new Coalition agreement with the Victorian Nationals, led by Pat McNamara since 1988.

Kennett became party leader again in 1991 and led the Coalition to victory in the 1992 Victorian state election. The Liberals actually gained a majority of seats in their own right and although Kennett had no need for the support of the Nationals, he retained the Coalition with McNamara as his Deputy Premier.[citation needed]

The Liberal and National Coalition held government from 1992 to 1999 under Kennett's leadership. The Kennett government privatised many government services, including closing down over three hundred schools.[53] The Liberals and Nationals fought as a Coalition in the 1996, after which the Liberals won majority in its own right again, and again 1999, after which the Coalition was defeated.[citation needed]

McNamara's successor as Nationals leader, Peter Ryan, ended the Coalition agreement.[54] Since then, Liberals and Nationals had a strained relationship. Ryan uttered several sharp criticisms of the Liberals' most prominent figures, particularly their no-tolls policy on the Melbourne Eastlink freeway[55] and on former leader Robert Doyle's remarks that the Liberals were twenty seats from government, a statement that assumed that the Nationals would support a Liberal government.[56] Relations soured further at the beginning of 2006 when Victorian Senator Julian McGauran defected from the Nationals to the Liberals.[57]

The Liberal Party was the sole opposition party in Victoria until 2008, when Liberals under Ted Baillieu formed a new Coalition agreement with the Nationals.[58]

After the 2010 Victorian state election, the Liberal and National Coalition held government under Baillieu's leadership. On 7 March 2013, Baillieu resigned from his position of Premier of Victoria; he was replaced by Denis Napthine. Napthine led the Coalition to a defeat in the 2014 Victorian state election.

After the 2014 election, Matthew Guy was elected leader. The Coalition arrangement was maintained while the Liberals and Nationals were in opposition. The coalition lost the 2018 election and suffered a significant swing against it,[quantify] leading to the resignation of Guy as leader of the Liberal Party.[59] He was replaced by Michael O'Brien as party leader.

In 2020 allegations were made of branch stacking, with an internal audit finding that some members had breached party rules by paying for other people's membership fees.[17]

On 6 September 2021, a few Liberal MPs including Guy resigned from O'Brien's shadow cabinet or from parliamentary party positions. O'Brien refused to step down as party leader as "he believed he had the support of the majority of MPs" ahead of a possible leadership challenge.[60] The following day, Guy replaced O'Brien as party leader in a leadership spill.[61] Cindy McLeish was replaced by David Southwick as deputy party leader.

In May 2022, Bernie Finn was expelled from the Victorian Liberal Party for "a series of inflammatory social media posts", including calling for abortion to be made illegal in all circumstances, and comparing the Victorian Premier to Adolf Hitler.[62][63][64]

Following the 2022 Victorian state election, the party's director Sam McQuestin, stepped down citing 'internal challenges' in the months leading into the state election. McQuestin is set to be replaced by West Australian Liberal party state director Stuart Smith after a three-month search.[65]

John Pesutto was elected leader of the Liberal Party on 8 December 2022, winning the party room ballot by one vote against Brad Battin.[66] Under Pesutto's leadership, in March 2023 he attempted to expel Liberal MP Moira Deeming from the party room after she spoke at an anti-trans rally outside the Victorian Parliament, but the vote failed 18–11.[67][68][69][70] Two months later, Deeming threatened to sue Pesutto following the first attempt to expel her and associate her with neo-Nazis. She was subsequently expelled from the party room 19 votes to 11.[71] Following that vote, Pesutto was Booed by supporters of Deeming during a state council speech.[72][73][74][75]

The Victorian Liberal Party endorsed candidates for the first time in the party's history for the 2024 Melbourne City Council election.[76]

On 27 December 2024, Brad Battin deposed Pesutto in a leadership spill.[77][78] The cabinet having a lack of males and coming at a time when Liberals are in fact performing relatively well to Labor in polls have drawn some criticism and doubts at the prospect of the party. Battin was deposed by Jess Wilson in another leadership spill on 18 November 2025, less than 12 months after the previous spill.[79] Wilson became the first woman to lead the Victorian Liberals.

1945–1948: William Anderson

1948–1949: Magnus Cormack

1949–1950: Dan Mackinnon

1950–1952: William Anderson

1952–1956: John Anderson

1956–1959: Rutherford Guthrie

1959–1962: John Buchan

1962–1965: William Snell

1965–1966: Andrew Peacock

1966–1970: Robert Southey

1970–1973: Phillip Russell

1973–1976: Peter Hardie

1976–1979: Joy Mein

1979–1982: Richard Alston

1982–1984: Stewart McArthur

1984–1987: Eda Ritchie

1987–1992: Michael Kroger

1992–1998: Ted Baillieu

1997–2000: Joy Howley

2000–2003: Ian Carson

2003–2006: Helen Kroger

2006–2007: Russell Hannan

2007–2011: David Kemp

2011–2015: Tony Snell

2015–2018: Michael Kroger

2019–2022: Robert Clark

2022–2023: Greg Mirabella

2023–present: Philip Davis

1945–1971: J V McConnell

1971–1974: Leo Hawkins

1975–1976: Timothy Pascoe

1976–1977: Graham Jennings

1977–1983: Neville Hughes

1984–1987: John Ridley

1987–1988: David Kemp

1989–1994: Petro Georgiou

1994–2000: Peter Poggioli

2000–2003: Brian Loughnane

2003–2008: Julian Sheezel

2008–2011: Tony Nutt

2011–2015: Damien Mantach

2015–2017: Simon Frost

2017–2019: Nick Demiris

2019–2022: Sam McQuestin

2023–present: Stuart Smith
Arthur Engelbert (born 1951 Werdohl, West Germany) is a professor in media theory and art sciences at the University of Applied Sciences Potsdam.



This article about a German academic is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.The current Brazilian Civil Code (Law 10.406 of January 10, 2002) has been in force since January 11 or 12, 2003, after its one-year vacatio legis. The first version dates from 1916, after the publication of Law No. 3,071 of the same year.[1][2][3]

The new text has 2,046 articles organized as follows:[3]

General Part:

Special Part:

The history of Brazilian law, combined with local elements, is intertwined with the history of Portuguese law, which includes the influence of Roman, Germanic and Canon law. After Brazil's independence, the imperial government enacted a bill to maintain the Philippine Ordinances and all previous Portuguese legislation, which had flaws and contradictions, in force in Brazil. The 1891 constitution required a civil code to be drafted as soon as possible. Consequently, a multitude of laws, assents, charters, resolutions and regulations were issued to complement or modify the Legislations. Once independent, the code needed to develop in accordance with the needs of its people.[4]

The interest aroused by the Napoleonic code and the theory of codification influenced Brazilian jurists, and the creation of the first two law schools in the country and the growing production of national legislation, replacing Portuguese legislation, maintained a steady legal emancipation. The jurist Augusto Teixeira de Freitas was entrusted with the consolidation of the legislation in force and the drafting of the civil code for the Empire. He published his incomplete work and called it a sketch, demonstrating his understanding of the importance of the project and the necessity of a broad discussion. Disgusted by the delay in the commission's review of the project and the silent contempt his work received, Freitas suspended the execution of the contract. However, it is evident the influence his text had on South American codes.[5][6]

The different attempts made by several Brazilians inspired others, revealing a historical solidarity and a long history of failures and successes. The choice of Clóvis Beviláqua to draft the civil code received a lot of criticism, since the country had more experienced and prestigious jurists. However, he was undeterred, and after numerous modifications made by the commission, his work was completed and approved in the House of Representatives, although much later due to Rui Barbosa's opposition.[7]

The first Civil Code had only 1,807 articles, short and few paragraphs, whose main characteristic were the original and national style. It was more concerned with the precision of the language and concepts rather than the effective practical application of the precepts. It was conservative, especially in its provisions on the family, with a complete rejection of social aspects.[8]

The drafting of the 2002 Code was entrusted to Miguel Reale, who invited other jurists to help him. Once the project was completed, it was heavily criticized, as it abdicated the requirement to be a modern law in exchange for comfort and old-fashioned solutions.[9][10] After amendments, it was approved by the Chamber of Deputies in 1983, but due to the re-democratization of the country and the drafting of the new Constitution, the work was interrupted and fell into oblivion. Abruptly revived, the bill was approved in the Senate and House of Representatives in 2001, and after numerous amendments made to adapt the draft to the new constitutional reality, it was sanctioned by President Fernando Henrique Cardoso in 2002.[11]

An important change in the new code is the unification of civil and commercial law in a single text, the consequence of adherence to the theory of the company, initially adopted by the Italian Civil Code of 1942, promulgated by the fascist government of Benito Mussolini.[12]
 Cubavision  is a Cuban television channel owned by the Cuban government.[1] It airs nationally 24 hours a day and has a cable version with a global reach called Cubavision International.[1]

The origins of Cubavision go back to December 10, 1950, with the first transmissions of CMQ-TV, channel 6. This commercial channel started its regular transmissions on March 21, 1951. By 1954, it had become a national network, encompassing seven stations.[2]

In 1959, with the conclusion of the Cuban Revolution, CMQ-TV, like the other means of communication in the country, ended up under the control of the government. Subsequently, on February 27, 1961, with the disappearance of commercial advertising in Cuban media, the Cuban Government assumed the financing of the television channels.

In 1967, the first Telecenters (regional centers of television) were born and the use of video tape was introduced. In 1975, Cubavisión began its color broadcasts, and in the following years began to develop satellite transmissions, including the beginning of Cubavisión Internacional in 1986.

In 2025, the channel was suffering a debt. In May that year, it lost its analog signal in Villa Clara, rendering the transmitter obsolete due to lack of equipment; while its digital signal in Santiago de Cuba was turned off for five months. A few months later, it almost suspended the broadcast of telenovelas from TV Globo's catalog. The channel announced in October the arrival of Terra e Paixão, which is only shown three times a week (Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays at 8:45pm after the news) to cut costs, while local productions are shown in the same timeslot on other days of the week, far from achieving the popularity of Brazilian productions. Globo's telenovelas are popular in the country since they were introduced in 1985.[3]



This article about a television station in Cuba is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.45°25′34″N 0°44′38″E﻿ / ﻿45.426°N 0.744°E﻿ / 45.426; 0.744

Château de Puyguilhem is located in the town of Thénac, in the department of Dordogne, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, France. 

The castle was captured in the 13th century by King Henry III of England. The castle was rebuilt by Bertrand de Panisseau after 1265.

This French history–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Louise Marie Anne de Bourbon, Légitimée de France, Mademoiselle de Tours (Saint-Germaine-en-Laye, 18 November 1674 – Bourbon, 15 September 1681) was the illegitimate daughter of Louis XIV and his most famous maîtresse-en-titre, Madame de Montespan. She died in early childhood.

Louise Marie Anne de Bourbon was born at the Château de Saint-Germain-en-Laye on 18 November 1674. She was the couple's third daughter and their fifth child. She was legitimised by her father Louis XIV in January 1676 at the age of almost two. Her parents affectionately dubbed her Toutou after her title.

After her birth, her care was entrusted into the hands of Madame Scarron who had taken care of her older siblings in a house bought for them by their father on the Rue de Vaugirard, then in the suburbs of Paris. Known as Louise Marie, she was born after the official separation of Madame de Montespan and her legal husband.

After her legitimisation in 1676, she gained the style of Mademoiselle de Tours from the town of Tours in France. Growing up in Paris, she was adored by her oldest sister Louise-Françoise de Bourbon, who was known as Mademoiselle de Nantes. Some three years after her birth, she was joined by another sister, Françoise-Marie de Bourbon – future wife of Philippe d'Orléans Régent of France. Then in 1678 her last full brother was born at Clagny, Louis-Alexandre de Bourbon. The latter two were made legitimate in November 1681.

She was known as Mademoiselle de Tours until her premature death in 1681, at the age of six of Tuberculosis

She died at Bourbon-l'Archambault. Her father, who was at Fontainebleau, ordered that his beloved daughter be buried at the tomb of the Dukes of Bourbon.

After her death, writing to the duc du Maine, her mother said:

I do not speak to you of my grief, you are naturally too good not to have experienced it for yourself. As for Mademoiselle de Nantes, she has felt it as deeply as if she were twenty and has received the visits of the Queen and Madame la Dauphine.
[1]

Her mother was said to have been badly affected by her death but was unable to attend the child's funeral, which occurred four days after her death, as a result of being otherwise engaged with the incarceration of the duc de Lauzun.
The American Peace Award is awarded to American citizens working to further the cause of world peace.

The American Peace Award was created in 1923 by Edward Bok, who believed that the United States government was not taking initiative to promote peace in the world.[1] $100,000 was to be awarded to the person submitting "the best practicable plan by which the United States may co-operate with other nations for the achievement and preservation of world peace."[2] The first half of the prize was awarded upon the selection of the plan by a jury, and the remainder upon acceptance by the United States Senate[3] or showing "sufficient popular support".[4] The 1924 American Peace Award received plans from thousands of applicants,[5] and caught the interest of the Senate.[6][7][8]

Franklin D. Roosevelt drafted a plan for the contest but did not submit it because his wife Eleanor Roosevelt was selected as a judge for the prize. His plan called for a new world organization that would replace the League of Nations.[9] Although Roosevelt  had been the vice presidential candidate on the Democratic ticket of 1920 that supported the League of Nations, by 1924 he was ready to scrap it. His draft of a "Society of Nations" accepted the reservations proposed by Henry Cabot Lodge in the 1919 Senate debate. The new Society would not become involved in the Western Hemisphere, where the Monroe Doctrine held sway. It would not have any control over any military forces.  Although Roosevelt's plan was never made public, he thought about the problem a great deal, and incorporated some of his 1924 ideas into his design for the United Nations in 1944–1945.[10]

The prize was awarded in February 1924[11] to Dr. Charles Herbert Levermore, who was secretary of the World's Court League, the League of Nations Union, and the New York Peace Society, and former president of Adelphi College.[12] Levermore's plan suggested the United States adhere to the Permanent Court of International Justice and should extend its cooperation with the League of Nations.[13]

The American Peace Award was established in 2008 as a prize awarded to an American citizen or citizens working to further the cause of world peace, in the spirit of Edward W. Bok's original award. The American Peace Award is awarded by an advisory committee of artists, who present each recipient with an original work of art to honor their efforts.[14]


The Sleeping Warrior is the profile of the north Arran hills in Scotland as seen from the Ayrshire coast. It is a well-known site that takes its name from a resemblance to a resting human figure. Various interpretations of the profile exist although the view of the Witches Step and Caisteal Abhail from North Ayrshire and Bute is arguably the most convincing.

Although the idea is well known, the specific hills involved are variously described. Keay & Keay refer to "the profile of the 'Sleeping Warrior' of Arran as seen from the Clyde Coast", suggesting that several hills are included.[1] However, various websites claim the phrase refers to single hills, none of which individually resemble a reclining human figure, or to different parts of the north Arran range.

One interpretation is that all the hills north of Brodick on the island of Arran's coast are profiled, including Goat Fell, Caisteal Abhail and Cìr Mhòr. However, as other sources confirm, the Warrior does not include Goat Fell. High Spicer, for example writes: "And in broken weather the clouds would lie like a dingy blanket upon the heights until the wind blew them over, or the sun pierced them, and revealed the spire of Goatfell or the majestic figure of the Sleeping Warrior."[2]

Caisteal Abhail and the Witches Step are most often claimed as resembling the Sleeping Warrior when viewed from roughly northern directions.[3]

Claims are sometimes made for other views such as A' Chìr ridge (between Cìr Mhòr and Beinn Tarsuinn), that clearly suggests a humanoid head and shoulders (although no torso) or the rather less-compelling Beinn Nuis and Beinn Tarsuinn ridges, that are not visible from the Ayrshire coast.[4][5]

However, as the view from St Ninian's Bay on Bute indicates the full profile begins with the Witches Step "face", includes Caisteal Abhail as the folded arms and continues along the ridge towards Meall Mòr in the direction of Lochranza and Catacol. This profile is visible from the direction of the North Ayrshire coast all the way round to Argyll and north Kintyre.[6][7][8]


Albert John Langworthy Cowley (8 February 1886 – 9 June 1962) was an Australian rules footballer who played for the Carlton Football Club in the Victorian Football League (VFL).[1]



This Australian rules football biography of a person born in 1886 is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.German-Canadian history in British Columbia began with the onset of the Fraser Gold Rush in 1858, when Germans, Austrians, Swiss Germans and other German-ethnic men arrived in British Columbia en masse as part of the migration to the new Colony of British Columbia from the California goldfields.[1]  Many notable figures in that gold rush and the subsequent Cariboo Gold Rush and other British Columbia gold rushes, with many staying on and settling, including many who founded ranches such as the Richter Ranch between Oliver and Keremeos.[1]  Like the rest of the province, Greater Vancouver has had historic immigration from Germany.

Many from southwest Germany arrived in the newly settled Vancouver. Some were in the middle class, and some worked as shopkeepers and craftspersons. A wave of post-World War II immigration also came from Germany.[2] There were about 8,000 ethnic Germans born outside Canada who resided in Vancouver in 1960.[3]

The Fraser Street area was a point of settlement for the German community,[2] and it was called "Little Germany" from the 1940s through the 1960s.[4] An area of Vancouver along Robson Street received the name "Robsonstrasse" after World War II because it had a number of German restaurants, including delicatessens and pastry shops, established by new German immigrants. There was additional German settlement in the West End.[2]

Historically German immigrants had formed German clubs to continue German culture.[2]


Passiflora hirtiflora is a species of plant in the family Passifloraceae. It is endemic to Ecuador.



This Passifloraceae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.Daniel Mananta (born in Jakarta, Indonesia, on 14 August 1981) is an Indonesian actor, presenter, VJ, and podcaster of Chinese Indonesian descent. He is an Indonesian entertainer whose name emerged after winning the 2003 MTV Indonesia VJ Hunt; thus, he was popularly known as VJ Daniel Mananta. He has now established himself as an entertainer as well as a young entrepreneur.

Daniel Mananta led an amiable childhood in Jakarta, Indonesia. He attended Tarakanita IV in Pluit, North Jakarta, from kindergarten to the end of junior high school. Daniel Mananta moved to Perth, Australia, to complete his high school education at Aquinas College. His childhood is rarely a topic of discussion, as he felt he was socially awkward until after high school. Daniel Mananta has one brother, William Mananta.[1]

During his school years in Perth, Daniel Mananta took up part-time employment at Nando's, first as a waiter and eventually attained a higher position equivalent to assistant manager. However, as high school final exams approached, he left the part-time job to focus on his education.

Following graduation from Aquinas College, Daniel Mananta pursued a double degree: Bachelor of Business Administration majoring in Finance and International Business at Edith Cowan University. He graduated in 2002 at the age of 20.

While looking for an opportunity in Perth as a fresh graduate for 6 months, Daniel Mananta was involved in Network 21, a multi-level marketing system selling Amway products. As he was doing business presentations on almost a daily basis, Daniel Mananta began to enjoy public speaking. He also interned at Citibank Australia for 3 weeks.

Missing his homeland, Daniel Mananta returned to Jakarta at the end of 2002. He worked with his father, who owned a store in Mangga Dua, Jakarta. Mangga Dua itself is a gargantuan shopping hub in the capital city. Unfortunately, the work was not something Daniel Mananta enjoyed, and then he left in early 2003.

At around the same time, MTV Indonesia launched the MTV VJ Hunt 2003 event. Daniel Mananta tried his luck and entered the contest, proceeded to become a finalist from 6000 contestants and ultimately emerged as the winner of the VJ Hunt.

Soon, Daniel Mananta became a familiar face. In 2004, he hosted the Red Carpet MTV Asia Awards. During his time as an MTV VJ, he has interviewed some of the biggest names in international music - Korn, Linkin Park, Avril Lavigne, The Black Eyed Peas, Gareth Gates, Michelle Branch and Nicole Scherzinger, to name but a few.

Daniel Mananta also became ambassador for several products, including Sony Ericsson and Adidas Indonesia.

In 2007, Daniel Mananta landed the lead role in I Love you Boss, an FTV produced by MNC pictures. He also starred in a soap opera produced by Sinemart, titled Antara Cinta dan Dusta (Between Love and Lies).

Daniel Mananta scored an opportunity to grace the big screen as Jimmie in the thriller Rumah Dara (Macabre) in 2009 alongside Shareefa Danish, Julie Estelle, Arifin Putra, Sigi Wimala and others. Macabre, which was directed by The Mo Brothers, was also released in international film markets.

In 2011, Daniel Mananta recorded a song with the band Potenzio, titled Twitter Dunia (World Twitter). In the song, Daniel Mananta raps. He admitted to being a little less confident about singing but enjoys rapping, as it is similar to presenting but with faster articulation of words.

Daniel Mananta hosted the third season of Indonesian Idol in 2006. The first time he hosted the popular competition, he appeared alongside Ata. His work as an MTV VJ continued as per usual.

Daniel and Ata returned as the hosts of Indonesian Idol the following year. In 2008, Daniel Mananta was paired with Dewi Sandra, an Indonesian singer, to host the fifth season of Indonesian Idol. In the sixth and seventh seasons of Indonesian Idol (2010 and 2012 respectively), Daniel was entrusted to lead the show independently.

The seasoned presenter also hosted Asian Idol in 2007, which was screened in six countries; India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Vietnam. He also hosted the show Anugerah Planet Muzik 2011, shown in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. In 2016, he hosted the second season of The Voice Indonesia.

In 2008, Daniel Mananta launched his own clothing line on 28 October - a day commemorated as Youth Pledge Day in Indonesia. The brand, “DAMN! I Love Indonesia”, aims to remind people of Indonesia’s culture. “DAMN” is derived from his name - DAniel MaNanta.[2]

After living in Australia for seven years, Daniel Mananta yearned for Indonesia. During his time abroad, he noted that some Indonesians living in other countries did not openly expressed a connection to their home country.. Thus, he was moved to create “DAMN! I Love Indonesia”. Comprising T-shirts, polo shirts, button up shirts, shorts, hats, and belts, the collection reflects a love of Indonesian culture.

Each “DAMN! I Love Indonesia” article carries a tag telling the story of the product in English and Bahasa Indonesia. For example, the tag on a T-shirt depicting a wayang (shadow puppet) character will bear a description about that particular character.

DAMN! I Love Indonesia first set up shop in fX shopping center in South Jakarta. In 2012, this outlet had to close down as the floor became the campus of a private educational institution.

Since 2010, DAMN! I Love Indonesia outlets can be found in Grand Indonesia Shopping Town in Jakarta and Grand City in Surabaya. In 2012, another outlet opened in Pondok Indah Mall in South Jakarta with the fifth opening in June of that year in Mal Panakukkang in Makassar.

DAMN! I Love Indonesia products can also be found online at http://www.damniloveindonesia.com.

Daniel Mananta and a handful of partners launched DAMN.inc, an entertainment venture showcasing models as well as film and music production. Some actresses under DAMN.inc management are Wenny Vanilla and Rianti Cartwright.[3] DAMN.inc can be accessed on www.damninc.com

According to Daniel Mananta, he started dating later than most - he had his first relationship when he was 17 years old. He was in a brief relationship with Marissa Nasution in 2008; a union that ended in the same year. There previously circulated rumours of Daniel with singers Agnes Monica and Sandra Dewi, but these remain unconfirmed.[citation needed]

He married Viola Maria from Germany in 2011, and since then they had 2 children.[4]

In 2007, Daniel Mananta was nominated as Best Presenter in Music at the Panasonic Awards - one of three times he would be nominated at the same awards show.
In 2008, he nabbed an award as Favorite Host at the Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards. Daniel Mananta also won the Panasonic Gobel Awards 2013 for Favorite Talent Show Presenter category.[5]


George W. Spaulding (June 29, 1843 – February 1, 1908) was an American architect from Woonsocket, Rhode Island.

George Willard Spaulding was born June 29, 1843, in Pascoag, Rhode Island, to Willard Danielson Spaulding and Clarissa Danforth (Ballard) Spaulding.[1][2] He was trained in mechanical drafting and engineering and came to Woonsocket in 1869, where he worked as a mechanical engineer for the Woonsocket Machine and Press Company.[2] In 1885, he established himself as an architect in Woonsocket.[3] In later life he worked with his son, Edgar L. Spaulding, who succeeded him, though he retired from architecture not long after his father's death.[4]

Spaulding married Hattie Olivia Elliot. They had one son, Edgar Leroy Spaulding.[5]

Spaulding was a parishioner of St. James Episcopal Church.[6] died February 1, 1908, aged 64, in Woonsocket, Rhode Island. He is buried in Oak Hill Cemetery.[7]

Two of Spaulding's buildings have been listed on the United States National Register of Historic Places, and others contribute to listed historic districts.

Spaulding was also one of two local architects who competed for the design of the Woonsocket District Courthouse in 1894.[12]

This article about a United States architect born in the 19th-century is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Cults is a small parish and hamlet close to the centre of the Kingdom of Fife, Scotland. It lies mainly in the Howe of Fife,[1] and about 4+1⁄2 miles (7.2 km) south-west of the nearest town - Cupar. The parish is about 2+1⁄3 miles (3.8 km) long and 1+1⁄3 miles (2.1 km) wide. 

The parish contains various villages, farms and hamlets including Cults, Pitlessie, Crossgates and Walton.  The only archaeological site of any importance seems to be a fort on the western slope of Walton Hill.[2]

Its name is derived from the Scottish Gaelic cùilt meaning a corner or recess.[3]

Cults' most well-known resident was Sir David Wilkie (1785–1841) born in Cults Church manse. His father was parish minister and while Wilkie lived in Cults, characters in the parish served as models for his paintings Pitlessie Fair (1804) and the Village Politicians (1806).[4] Cults Kirk contains a handsome monument in marble, by Chantrey, erected by Wilkie in memory of his parents[5] and another to his memory, erected by his sister in 1844.

The parish contains the shell and estate of Crawford Priory, originally the seat of the Earl of Glasgow, and latterly Lord Cochrane of Cults. 

The now-demolished Priestfield House, once the seat of the Martin Smith family, was nearby at Pitlessie.

Cults Kirk has lain in the centre of the parish at the Kirkton of Cults for at least 800 years and may predate Christianity. The current building was constructed in 1793 under the oversight of Sir David Wilkie's father, Rev. David Wilkie, and then extended in 1835. It consists of a rectangular sandstone structure with a narrow bell tower to the western side surrounded by a graveyard predating the church building.[6] The session house lies directly to the west of the kirk and predates the current building. The manse, to the southwest, is now a private residence.[7]

The kirk became part of a congregation along with Kettle church in 1963, before this combined with the churches of Ladybank and Collessie to form the Howe of Fife Parish Church congregation in 1983.[6]

The Church of Scotland sold Cults Kirk to a private buyer in 2021.[8][9]


Banksia sphaerocarpa var. dolichostyla, commonly known as Ironcap Banksia, is a plant which is either considered a variety of Banksia sphaerocarpa, or as a species in its own right. It is native to the Southwest Botanical Province of Western Australia. Seeds do not require any treatment, and take around 33 days to germinate.[2]

The Ironcap Banksia is an open, spreading, woody shrub some 3–4 m (10–13 ft) high by up to 4 m (13 ft) wide. The foliage is glaucous (pale blue-grey), with bright green new growth. The roundish to elongated golden-yellow inflorescences appear in autumn, larger and more elongate than spherical as with the other forms of B. sphaerocarpa. It derives its name from its 50–65 mm long pistils, the longest of any banksia, and perianth (49–55 mm). The grey old flowers remain on the old cones.[3][4]

First collected by botanist Alex George in 1978, it was officially described in the 1981 revision of the genus Banksia as a variety of Banksia sphaerocarpa. The specific epithet was derived from the Ancient Greek words dolichos "long" and stylos "pillar", in reference to the long styles.[3]

Botanist and plant taxonomist Kevin Thiele analysed the morphometrics in his cladistic paper of 1996, and announced that the Ironcap banksia warranted specific status. He analysed Banksia micrantha as the sister group to the pair of B. sphaerocarpa var. sphaerocarpa and B. sphaerocarpa var. caesia, and noted that the Ironcap banksia, which was a sister taxon to this combined group, had stouter old styles on old cones which did not curl around, while those of the other varieties curled around the infructescence to form a ball.[5]

George replied in the 1999 Flora of Australia treatment of Banksia that he did not feel this character alone justified specific rank, and that otherwise the plant was merely larger in all parts to var. caesia but essentially similar.[4]

In 2002, Austin Mast's molecular study yielded a surprise when molecular analysis mapped out the Ironcap banksia as a sister taxon to its geographical neighbour B. violacea in a larger group together with B. laricina and B. incana. Banksia micrantha and the two remaining sphaerocarpa varieties form a related group.[6]

Banksia sphaerocarpa var. dolichostyla has been declared Rare flora by the Western Australian state government;[7] its status is deemed to be in the wild either rare, in danger of extinction, or otherwise in need of special protection, and has been gazetted as such, following approval by the Minister for the Environment, after recommendation by the State's Endangered Flora Consultative Committee.


Kim Jung-eun (Korean: 김정은; born February 10, 1999), known professionally as Kim Lip (김립), is a South Korean singer. She is a member of Loona, leader of its sub-unit Odd Eye Circle, and member of Artms.

Kim Jung-eun was born on February 10, 1999 in Cheongju, North Chungcheong Province, South Korea.[1][2] She graduated from Hanlim Multi Art School alongside fellow Loona member Chuu in 2018.[3]

On May 15, 2017, Kim Lip was revealed as the sixth member of girl group Loona[4] On May 23, her eponymous debut solo album was released with title track "Eclipse", which was later included in NASA's playlist for the 2017 total solar eclipse.[5][6] Kim Lip then appeared on seventh member Jinsoul's debut solo album for the track "Love Letter" in June.[7] She later featured on the song "See Saw" for eleventh member Go Won's debut single album.[8]

On September 21, Kim Lip, Jinsoul, and eighth member Choerry debuted as Loona's second sub-unit Loona Odd Eye Circle with the release of the extended play Mix & Match.[9] On August 20, 2018, Kim Lip debuted with Loona as a full group through the release of their debut mini album [+ +][10]

In 2021, Loona members YeoJin, Kim Lip, Go Won, and Choerry collaborated with children's television show Cocomong to release the singles "Yum-Yum" and "Yummy-Yummy".[11]

On November 28, 2022, JTBC Entertainment News reported that nine members of Loona, including Kim Lip, had filed an application for a provisional injunction to suspend their exclusive contract with Blockberry Creative, following Chuu's expulsion three days earlier.[12]

On January 13, 2023, it was reported that members Heejin, Kim Lip, Jinsoul, and Choerry had been granted a preliminary injunction against their contract with Blockberry Creative.[13] On March 17, Kim Lip signed an exclusive contract with the agency Modhaus, which was founded by Loona's former creative director Jaden Jeong[14] On April 1, Kim Lip was announced as a member of the Modhaus project Artms alongside Heejin, Jinsoul, and Choerry, later joined by fellow Loona member Haseul.[15][16]

On July 12, Kim Lip, Jinsoul, and Choerry released a second extended play as Odd Eye Circle under Modhaus.[17]

On May 31, 2024, Artms debuted as a girl group with their debut album DALL.[18]

On October 16, 2025, Kim Lip released the single "Can You Entertain?" along with a music video.[19][20] NME ranked the song at number 13 in their list of the 25 best K-pop songs of 2025.[21]

All songwriting credits are adapted from the Korea Music Copyright Association's database.[22]
Dietrich IV, Bishop of Paderborn (born 1546 in Waterlappe) was a German clergyman and bishop/prince for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Paderborn. He was ordained in 1585. He was appointed bishop in 1585. He died in 1618. He was a part of the House of Fürstenberg (Westphalia).[1]



This article about a German Catholic bishop or archbishop is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.Archduchess Maria of Austria (15 May 1531 – 11 December 1581) was the daughter of Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor from the House of Habsburg and Anna of Bohemia and Hungary.

Maria was born on the 15 May 1531 in Prague and grew up in Hofburg. She was described as "small" for her age as well as "almost intelligent",[1] well-mannered and attractive, despite having inherited the facial features characteristic of the Habsburgs.

Maria and her sisters received a strict and thorough Catholic religious education[2] from the humanist Kaspar Ursinus Velius. She was taught German, Italian, Latin[3] and French.[1] She was also taught how to play keyboard instruments and dance.[4]

As part of the Treaty of Venlo, William of Jülich-Cleves-Berg was proposed a marriage to one of Emperor Charles V's nieces, with William being allowed to pick between Maria and her sister, Anna.[1]

In June 1546[1] Maria, along with her mother and her sister, arrived in Regensburg for the marriage negotiations and to meet William. While William initially chose Maria's sister, Anna, she was instead married to Albrecht V of Bavaria, and on 18 July 1546, Maria married William in a lavish ceremony with festivities lasting for days.

Information about Maria's life after marriage at the court of Jülich is very scarce. Some sources suggest that the princess had little mental capacity. Letters from her husband from bear witness to the tender relationship between the two, as well as Maria's supposed mental or physical infirmity. According to a diplomat who visited the court of William the following year, Maria had doubts about the legality of her own marriage due to her husband's forceful union with Jeanne d'Albret, which made her mentally disturbed at the time.[5]

The mental illness of her son Johann Wilhelm, born in 1562, was possibly inherited from his mother. The theory that the princess was sickly and therefore not a part of court life as well as the fact that she gave birth to six children in eight years might have taxed her already frail health and psyche and pushed her into mental confusion. Her paternal grandmother was Joanna of Castile and much like her grandmother, she was regarded as moody and was at first temporarily and later entirely insane.

Maria died after being ill for eight days on the 11 December at Hambach castle.[3] She was attended by her husband and daughter Sibylle.[3]

Maria had 7 children with William:



This article about a German duchess is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.
This biography of a member of a European royal house is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

Richard Steven Horvitz[a] (born July 29, 1966)[1] is an American actor, comedian and voice director. He is best known for his voice work in animation and video games. His voice credits include the original Alpha 5 on Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, Power Rangers Zeo and Power Rangers Turbo, Razputin Aquato in Psychonauts, Kaos in Skylanders, Billy and his father Harold in Grim & Evil and The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy, Grey Matter in Ben 10, Rodney in Squirrel Boy, Daggett in The Angry Beavers, Zim in Invader Zim, Orthopox in Destroy All Humans!, the Zoni in Ratchet & Clank, Bumble in Kinectimals, the Space Weaver in Broken Age, Kanchomé in Zatch Bell!, and Moxxie in Helluva Boss.

Horvitz was born in Los Angeles, California. His father Louie, a planning engineer for Rocketdyne for over 35 years, was Jewish.[2] His maternal grandfather was born in Cuba, and his mother's family is from Madera, Mexico.[3] His older brother, Louis J. Horvitz, is a television director and producer. As a child, Horvitz was inspired by Flip Wilson, Tom Jones, and Don Adams, doing impressions of them.[4]

Horvitz first appeared in a 1976 Freshen Up gum commercial, which led to other commercial appearances and several hand modeling jobs. After a brief stint in an off-Broadway production of Oliver! he went on to make appearances on television series such as Kids Incorporated and Safe at Home, and films such as Summer School, How I Got into College, and Deadly Weapon.[5] From 1988 to 1991, he starred as Howie for two seasons in the syndicated television sitcom The Munsters Today.

Starting in 1993, Horvitz changed the focus of his career to voice acting, starting with the voices of Alpha 5 and Alpha 4 in the live-action series Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. From there, he had several other voice roles in such animated series as The Angry Beavers (as Daggett), Invader Zim (as Zim),[6] Kim Possible, Dave the Barbarian (as Ned Frischman), Zatch Bell! (as Kanchomé), The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy (as Billy and his father Harold),[7] Ben 10 (as Grey Matter), Squirrel Boy (as Rodney), and Shorty McShorts' Shorts (as Dudley). He also co-wrote the Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy episode "Keeper of the Reaper" alongside his wife Kristen Lazarian.

After his stint as Alpha 5 ended, Horvitz went on to voice a few monsters in other Power Rangers series and was also the voice of Alpha 7 in the Power Rangers Wild Force episode "Forever Red". He voiced the main characters of Raz in the Psychonauts series and Orthopox in the Destroy All Humans! series. He has also voiced various NPCs in EverQuest II, the Berserker Darklings in The Darkness, Bumble in Kinectimals, and Kaos in Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure.[8]

Horvitz voiced "Green Grapes" in the Fruit of the Loom commercials and has acted on stage, including in Jeffrey Hatcher's Mrs. Mannerly.[9]

Horvitz also voices Moxxie and serves as a voice director in the adult animated web series Helluva Boss. He also played the roles of Alpha 8 and Alpha 9[10] in the Netflix special Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Once & Always, which celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Power Rangers franchise.[11]

In 2001, Horvitz was in the sketch comedy group The MoHos with Fred Willard, created by Fred's wife Mary Lovell.[12] He and Fred would sometimes perform on various talk shows including Jimmy Kimmel Live! and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. Horvitz also appeared in an episode of Saturday Night Live in the short segment "Bear City" and briefly appeared on Tosh.0.[12]

Horvitz married playwright and screenwriter Kristen Lazarian on February 9, 1996. They currently live in Los Angeles and have three sons.[13] He speaks fluent Spanish.
